In order to calculate transcription accuracy, a dictionary of ranked English words is first created. This dictionary is created from a text file maintaining roughly 100,000 English words ranked by frequency and gathered from Google's publication database. Each word added to this dictionary is mapped to a value corresponding to its frequency rank -- for example, the most common English word 'the' is given a value of 1, while the 100,000th most common English word is given a value of 100,000. Next, an ideal transcription score is calculated for the Gold Standard Transcription (this score is used as a baseline for comparison with the Silver Standard Transcription and is assumed to be the score that results from the most perfect possible transcription). The Gold Standard Transcription undergoes light preprocessing (removing common English stopwords, expanding contractions, and lowercasing all text) and is split by whitespace into a list of word tokens (Note: By omitting English stopwords from our calculation of transcription accuracy, we focus on the quality of transcription of words which carry important meaning, rather than placing focus on the transcription of connective words which provide little meaning to the overall text). Next, the list of word tokens from the Gold Standard Transcription is traversed and each word is given a value according to its corresponding value within the ranked English words dictionary (words which do not appear in the ranked English words dictionary are omitted). The total value of all words within the list of word tokens then becomes the Gold Standard Transcription score -- for example, if the Gold Standard Transcription is 'the the the,' then the resulting Gold Standard Transcription score will be 3. In a similar manner, the Silver Standard Transcription score is also calculated (omitting English stopwords and calculating the total value of all Silver Standard Transcription word tokens which appear in both the ranked English words dictionary and in the Gold Standard Transcription). As a consequence, the Silver Standard Transcription loses points for each word that it is missing when compared to the Gold Standard Transcription (a value which is equivalent to the word's corresponding value within the ranked English words dictionary) and does not gain additional points by providing extra instances of a certain word (more instances than appear in the Gold Standard Transcription). In order to calculate the accuracy of the Silver Standard Transcription when compared with the Gold Standard Transcription, the Silver Standard Transcription score is simply divided by the Gold Standard Transcription score, serving as a measure of accuracy/distance away from the ideal Gold Standard Transcription score. For example, if the Gold Standard Transcription score is 100 and the Silver Standard Transcription score is 85, we find that the Silver Standard Transcription is 0.85/85% accurate when compared with the perfect Gold Standard Transcription.