Find the clock today, so I will move quickly.What is happening in our lives?Why don't I go to the class that's relevant?Okay, here we go.So today is Monday, January 22nd.We're going to do shoulder girdle, and then we'll finish up the lower extremity on Wednesday.The following Wednesday, the last day in January, will be our first exam in here.Can't hear?Oh, okay.Turn up the volume.Let's see.What have I got.Mike's on.How's that?That's louder.Thank you for letting me know.Okay.Uh, so.Back to Wednesday, January 31st.So that first exam will be on everything up through the bones of the upper extremity, okay?And that exam will be multiple choice.That exam will cover material that is discussed in lecture.So if you have been doing the required reading, you will have encountered material that is in the book but not in lecture.That is for your interest and anatomical enjoyment.Only what is in the book-- or, excuse me.Only what is-- what we discuss here in lecture is what will be on the exams.Also, do not think that the exam will be, 'Here's a picture. What is this landmark?'No questions like that whatsoever.The questions will be, 'The elbow joint is an example of a synchondrosis, synovial joint,' etcetera.It might be those 's' words-- yes please.And if there are pictures, it will be to demonstrate a movement which you will need to name, or some picture from lecture related to the tissues.So, how will your knowledge of an anatomy-- anatomical landmarks-- be assessed?I will ask questions like, 'The olecranon process-- which of the following landmarks is most distal?''Olecranon process, medial epicondyle,' etcetera.So you'll have to know the anatomy and have it in your head.In order to be able to answer questions about it.Time is not an issue.Historically, on my exams, people do not run out of time.The word on the street, I think, is 'challenging but fair' for the exams.Any questions.Okay, so let's go to today.And let's see if I have any better luck getting started here.Alrighty.So we're continuing with the spine before we can get to the upper extremity.Let's see if I can get something done here.Here is a scan of a vertebra. And I want you to me which region of the spine this vertebra belongs to.And the only way you can know that is by looking at the orientation of the facet joint that is shown there.Alrighty, let's see how you're doing.Anybody want more time?Or have we got this?Alrighty.And you have decided it's either a thoracic or lumbar vertebra.Let's talk about that.This to me looks like these facet joints, the articular surfaces are facing medial-laterally, right?And that is the definition of 'lumbar.'Okay, good job.That was a hard question.Welcome to Monday morning.Alrighty.So.Let's look at the ligaments that are going to control, con-- are actually going to constrain movement in the vertebral column.So we've got a sagittal view here of some vertebrae, and we have anterior over here.Body's posterior over here.Spinous processes, and the center of rotation is about in the vertebral foramen.So, ligaments that are anterior are going to stretch when I hyperextend.Ligaments on the posterior side are going to stretch when I flex.So if you just look at the actual ligaments, as shown here in this lovely drawing, what are we looking at here?We're looking at bodies.They've been cut.We've got a sagittal section here.You're all experts on this after I have you finish the Anatomoge assignment.So you can see the trabecular bone inside these vertebral bodies.Cortical bone on the superficial surface of all of the bodies.You can see the intervertebral disc, with its nucleus pulposus and annulus fibrosis surrounding that nucleus pulposus.Together, this forms a cartilaginous joint between the vertebral bodies.A cartilaginous joint of the fibrocartilage type, which we call a 'symphysis.'Okay.So this is representing ligaments and a lot of ligaments here, posterior.Looks like only one ligament anterior.That's because the loads in life are in the anterior direction.Gravity manipulating with their upper extremities, lifting.We put a lot of load, posterior.So that's where we're gonna need some help in constraining hyperflexion.Alrighty.So, now we're flipped, so the bodies are anterior on the left, and let's name the ligaments.There is a long one that runs down superior to inferior on the anterior aspect of these vertebral bodies.We call that the 'anterior longitudinal' because it's long.On the posterior aspect of the vertebral body is a long posterior ligament called the 'posterior longitudinal.'Then in-- three ligaments that we can find on the vertebral arch.The easiest one to name is one called 'interspinous,' because guess what?It runs between spinous processes.There is a supraspinous ligament runs from posterior aspect of spinous process to posterior aspect of spinous process.Supraspinous.And then, the-- kind of an elusive one, called the 'ligamentum flavum,' that runs between adjacent lamina.And it's kind of yellowish because it has more elastic-- elastin fibers in it, proportionally.That is typical.So it has relatively more elastin-to-collagen fibers than other ligaments.So those are our fine-- five spine ligaments to learn about.Here is a picture.This is a frontal plane view, viewed from the posterior aspect.So we're looking at the posterior aspect of vertebral bodies here.The pedicles have been sliced through; a frontal section through those pedicles.And the piece has been taken and rotated this way for you to look at, okay?So this is the piece that's been cut off.So now we're looking at the posterior aspect-- or, uh, an anterior view of this posterior piece of the vertebral arch.So this is a so-called laminectomy; it's where the lamina are cut off to expose the spinal column-- the spinal nerves that might be lying in this vertebral foramen, here.So this view shows you beautifully the ligamentum flavum, colored yellow here.So you can see how it runs from lamina to adjacent lamina, vertebra to vertebra.The whole point of going through this particular dissection is to show you the ligamentum flavum.So you can appreciate where it is.There is, in the cervical spine, a specialized portion of the supraspinous ligament-- an expansion, if you will.So, in the posterior aspect of the neck-- nuchal, nuchae-- is-- the supraspinous ligament gets a special name.The 'ligamentum nuchae.'You can imagine this ligament might be important in a grazing animal that hangs its head from a long neck to eat grass.But still present in ourselves.And you can see the vertebral artery traveling through the transverse foramen in the transverse processes only the cervical vertebrae.So, where, where oh where, is that posterior longitudinal ligament in this transverse section?Through some axial skeleton bones.Figure out what you're looking at first.We've got a thoracic vertebra here, articulating with some ribs.Transverse view.Alrighty.Here we go.Beautiful work.Beautiful work.The posterior longitudinal ligament is on the posterior aspect of that vertebral body.Good job.Ooh!This is a picture of someone with, I would say, several standard deviations away from the typical amount of flexibility, uh, and I want you to tell me what is-- what is particularly extensible in this individual's body?What ligament is stretching the most here?This looks like early twentieth century wallpaper.I think we-- that might date this photo.Alrighty.So you have decided it is anterior longitudinal.Good work, because this is a picture where he is-- his spine is hyperextended considerably, which means that that's gonna be stretching a ligament on the anterior side, and the only one on the anterior side is going to be that aunt-- anterior longitudinal.As much as it might give you a bit of discomfort to look at this image, let's consider if this supports or refutes what we talked about last time, regarding motion in different regions of the spine.Which regions of the spine have limited flexion-extension, compared to the other regions of the spine?Thorax.But we did see mobility in the sagittal plane in the cervical region, mobility in the lumbar region, and then not so much in the thoracic.Let's look at this, and see if we can find that.Hyperextended cervical spine.Hyperextended lumbar spine.Hardly any curvature in the thoracic spine.Interesting.Maybe it's not just fiction.The result of those-- the mobility due to the orientation of those facet joints.Okay, so let's talk about what can go wrong.You've all heard about slipped discs.Anatomically, we call them 'herniated discs,' and let's talk about why.A herniation is where a structure protrudes-- bulges through a wall.We're looking at transverse view here, of a lumbar vertebra.Again, I'm seeing those facets facing, in this case, medially, laterally.Annulus fibrosis, nucleus pulposus.Then you can see the spinal cord in the vertebral foramen, with spinal nerve roots exiting the intervertebral foramen here.But look what has happened.The annulus fibrosis has ruptured, and the nucleus pulposus is protruding, herniating, into the space in the intervertebral foramen.That means that the nucleus pulposus is impinging, pinching, pushing on, compressing spinal nerves.Ouch.Not good.That's what a slipped disc looks like.It's in fact, a herniation.So why does that happen?Here's a picture of a motion segment in the vertebral body.This just means that it's fixed.So only the more superior vertebral body is moving with flexion.What happens?Center of rotation here.Flexion is in the direction of the arrow.The posterior aspect stretches, while the anterior aspect compresses.So, these collagen fibers are being stretched, posteriorly.And the nucleus pulposis inside, then, pushes-- aw-- in the, in-- is-- this is resisting the nucleus pulposus bulging this way, so it bulges in the direction of compression, which is in the anterior direction.Something else that can happen that can interfere anatomically with a healthy life of these spinal nerve roots is arthritis.And we've-- you've seen in here that arthritis can present, with some laying down of bone in-- and, or bo-- lo-locations.Bone spurs in the joints.But bone can get laid down here, bone spurs in-- into-- that protrude into the intervertebral foramen spaces, and that also can pinch these spinal nerves.The name for this is 'spinal stenosis.'You might come across in some of your reading this word 'stenosis,' a narrowing.So, how do you know this is happening?You know this is happening because you have muscle weakness in extremity, typically the lower extremity, if it's a lumbar spine issue.Because those are the nerve roots that control the muscles of the lower extremity.Maybe there'll be pain or tingling in the extremities.And the reason for that is there's a well-known distribution of these spinal nerve roots, from particular-- these nerves have very specific structures that they receive information from and send controls to with regards to muscles in the skin.So this is the distribution of each of these nerves.So if you have an issue here, your neurologist is going to tie that-- is going to examine what level of the spinal cord is supplied-- supplies that area, and look there for pathologies.This is not gonna be on the exam.But this helps you understand why the anatomy of the spine might present in an issue somewhere else in the body.Let's talk about fractures of the spine, and here's one called 'spondylolysis.'This is something that can happen in gymnasts, wrestlers...And that is a fracture, in the vertebra, in the pars interarticularis.Well, that just means 'between the superior and inferior articular processes.'And that's called 'spondylolysis,' or the 'Scottie dog fracture.'Here's the cute little Scottie dog.That's how that fracture is found, so that fracture is gonna be at the neck of the Scottie dog.If you have a fracture there, besides having pain, what that means now is that the two vertebrae that are-- that articulate between those-- that articulate there-- that vertebra is now free to move, translate in the anterior-posterior direction.And when vertebra starts to move, to slip, it's called 'spondylolisthesis.'Oof, more of those 's' words.How I remember it is the longer word happens after the shorter word, right?Spondylolysis must occur-- is before spondylolisthesis; the slippage can occur.So that can be graded from the normal to minor to very severe.And here's what it might look like.Where are we?Here's the sacrum.This must be L5.This must be L4.So here's slippage between L4 and L5.And here's slippage between the sacrum and L5.So, it's young ath-- athletes and old adults who are most vulnerable to this.The athletes have repeated high compressive load, or perhaps some hereditary abnormality in the shape of the vertebra.But older adults are at risk for a different reason, which is degenerative changes-- that is, degeneration of the structures with time.And, uh, well, that wasn't very helpful.Where am I?Here I am.That's what I intended to do.So those are the fractures, and this slide has slipped out of place.So a little random quiz here on the ligaments, to jerk you back to fifteen minutes ago.I've had a little spondylolisthesis of the ordering of my slides here.Spondyl-- yeah, yeah.How can you answer this if you don't remember?Draw a transverse view of a vertebra.That can help you sort this out.If you don't want to take the time now, I strongly recommend that you take the time sometime before January 31st.Alrighty.Here we go.And we have an order.And I'm seeing big numbers here on the diagonal.So that tells me things are looking pretty good.However, we've got an anomaly over here in the posterior longitudinal ligament.And, sadly, I don't have a picture to show you the correct order here.Are you okay with that?Can you go back and look at one?Or do you want me to draw?You want me to draw?Alrighty.We've got a request for drawing, so I am going to mute.I think that mutes the light.Yes, that mutes the light.I'm gonna turn on the lights.I'm going to lift the screen.And I'm going to draw, if there is anything here to draw with.And there is!So I'm going to draw a vertebral body.I am going to add some pedicles.I am going to add a lamina.I'm going to add a spinous process.I'm gonna add transverse.There is my vertebra.Done.And, so now, is this colored chalk?No such luck.I'm going to draw the anjin-- anterior longitudinal there.I'm going to draw the posterior longitudinal here.I'm going to draw the ligamentum flavum here.And here.What am I leaving off?Interspinous and supraspinous.That means-- uh oh, I haven't practiced this.Body, body, intervertebral disc.Pedicle, pedicle, transverse process, and spinous process.I'll put a-- uh-- and there are my articular processes.You buying it?So, here is where is where I have my interspinous ligament.And here is where I have my supraspinous.Done!Okay, while I'm drawing.Boom.Okay, let's draw lateral flexion in the spine.Let's draw that figure.Motion segments.What do I know about lateral flexion in the three regions of the spine?Same or different?About the same or different?Saving it for next weekend.Okay.Pretty much the same.We've got one exception.And what is our exception?Where do we not have lateral flexion?Dens, hint.What articulation is this?C1, C2.Ehh!We don't want to break off that odontoid process, C1, C2 is our exception.Flexion and extension.You told me this earlier.I'm gonna move 'thoracic' down a little bit.You said, 'Oh, a lot of flexion-extension in the cervical region.'Not so much in the thoracic.And this is what we observed in our back-bender.Right?Done!Okay, so now we just have rotation left.When I said, 'Draw these curves,' this is what I'm talking about.When I said, 'Draw those graphs.'This is-- this is all I'm talking about.Rotation.Where do we have rotation?Do we have rotation in the cervical spine?Yes, we do.Do we have rotation in the thoracic spine?Yes, we do.Where's it limited?Lumbar.We have two exceptions up top.Where is this rotation happening?This huge amount of rotation.Where is that happening?C1, C2.So C2 and C2, with all of that extra-- that specialization is for this.And the price of that rotation is this.There's one other exception in rotation.Sup-- most superior, right?There's not much rotation at the occipital, C1.Okay, done.That's it.That's what you need to know.Now I have-- going to get chalk all over everything.Do you feel a little bit better now about those regions of the spine and their motion?That's it.So now all we have left to talk about are breathing movements, and... how do I unmute?I'm pressing-- there we go-- no picture.The picture has mute.And I don't want to mute the picture; I want to unmute the picture.There it is.Okay, so let's talk quickly about movements of the thoracic cage when you breathe.Here is this view of the costovertebral joints, one between the head of the rib and the body of a vertebra, thoracic vertebra.One between the angle of the rib and the transverse process to ar-- to costovertebral articulations.Here's the sagittal views where you can see the ligaments that are supporting the synovial joint here.And this is also a synovial joint.All of these are synovial.So, those ribs can move a bit, with respect to the vertebra.And here's how they do it.So we need-- when we breathe, the point of breathing is to expand the size of the lungs so that the air pressure changes so the air can go in.Or the air is pulled in, or the air is pulled out.So the thoracic cage increases anterior to posterior.If you put your hand on your sternum and take a forced inspiration, you can feel that moving and, of course, you can feel, uh, the expansion when you breathe deeply in the medial-lateral direction as well.These are classic descriptors of the movements of how the ribs move.The true ribs move like-- well, the most superior true ribs are described as moving like a pump handle.That's where the rotation here ends up lifting the sternum, which you can feel when you put your hand there, whereas the more inferior ribs twist.So it's like how a bucket handle moves with respect to a bucket.To increase that medial-lateral dimension.And, we can't spend much time in here in talking about the kinematics of those movements.That's it.I was looking for this slide way back when, when I was talking about a herniated disk.I don't know what has happened here with the order of my slides this morning.They were in order last time I checked.So, what we're looking at here is a-- as a neurosurgeon or an orthopedic surgeon would see the most distal-- most inferior part of the spinal cord after performing a laminectomy.So the lamina have been lifted off to expose these nervous tissues.And you can see here what a bulging or herniated disc looks like, and how it's pressing on a spinal nerve posterolaterally.That is, it bulges to the side and posteriorly, and not directly posterior.Any idea why?What structure is here that might be reinforcing the most posterior-medial aspect?Posterior longitudinal ligament.So the bulging happens to either side-- lateral to the posterior longitudinal ligament.Wow.Okay.So, would you like me to move those out of order slides back to the portion?I think I'll do that.It won't-- it won't mess with your notes.You'll still have your notes, but when you're going back through this, I'll put those two slides back in their logical place.Alrighty.So we're done with the spine.And let's move on into the appendicular skeleton.So, there's a lot that we will learn.We will learn about a bone named the 'clavicle,' the 'scapula,' and the 'humerus.'We'll look at the joints between them.The ligaments that help to keep them together.And then we'll look at some particular injuries.So where, where oh where, do you find a joint between the axial skeleton and the appendicular skeleton?And here we go.Ooh, two choices.Looks like we have a cluster here, and we have a cluster here.Hello!The appendicular skeleton starts here.Your shoulder girdle belongs to your upper extremity.The axial skeleton are the bones we just talked about: skull, vertebrae, ribs, sternum.This bone is not part of the axial skeleton.Therefore, this is the correct location for the joint between the axial skeleton and the appendicular skeleton.These joints are joints within the appendicular skeleton.Just a heads up.Alrighty.The word 'shoulder' is ambiguous.It could mean the shoulder girdle, all of these bones.Or it could mean that other point that got so many clicks on it in the previous slide out here.So we call the 'shoulder joint' this one, between the bone of the upper arm, humerus, and it turns out, the scapula.And we call the 'shoulder girdle' the two bones: the clavicle and the scapula.Which of these views do you think is anterior, left or right?On the sacrum, we saw the bumpy stuff, posteriorly.And smooth, the smooth surface anteriorly.So we've got a anterior on the left here, and posterior on the right.So let's learn about this bone called the 'clavicle.'The collarbone.It's got a sternal end.Guess where that would be.Towards the sternum.And an acromial end, the other end.We don't know yet why it's called the 'acromial end.'It's got a conoid tubercle.A tubercle is, like, something that sticks out.It's a process, and it must be the shape of a cone.And then a subclavian groove.'Subclavian,' 'under the clavicle.'So this groove is likely gonna be on the inferior aspect.Feel your clavicle.Okay, this is important, because if you can get what you feel to match up with what you know about the clavicle, you'll never have to memorize anything.So you start here at the manubrium of your sternum, and then on either side of that, there seems to be a notch in a bony place.So the two bony protuberances on either side of that clavicle: those are the two sternal ends-- kinda knobby-- of your clavicles.Then when you move laterally, your clavicle bows out anteriorly.It's convex anteriorly.A big curve.And then it takes a 180, and the curve rev-- reverses.So there's an acute little curve where it's now concave anteriorly before it reaches its most lateral-ward extension.Sternal end, concave anteriorly reverses curvature, con-- convex anteriorly, now concave anteriorly, before it, at its lateral-most point, articulates with the acromion of the scapula.Thus, the acromial end here.So here we go.Sternal end, medial.Acromial end, lateral.Conoid tubercle and subclavian.So this is the same clavicle and then just flipped 180 degrees to expose the other surface.So which of these surfaces is superior?When you feel your clavicle, is it smooth or bumpy?It is smooth.So the superior must be this top one.The bumpy surface is the inferior.You can't feel that so easily.So this conoid tubercle, this cone-shaped process, is lateral.And here is the subclavian groove on the inferior surface, like the subcostal groove on the inferior aspect of the rib, for the same reason: to protect vessels and nerves that pass in that groove,Alrighty.So here is a little display of some different clavicles.And what do you see?You see, they're different.Some people have very curvy ones.Some people have straighter ones.Some people have big ones.Some people have little ones.Which surface are we looking at here?Are we looking at the inferior or superior surface?Is it bumpy or smooth?It's bumpy.So we're looking at the inferior surface.Here are conoid tubercles, and here are subclavian grooves.Which end is lateral?At the top of this picture, or at the bottom?Is that conoid tubercle medial or lateral?It's lateral!Okay, look at that.You can orient a clavicle.Let's feel your scapula.Okay, so.Your shoulder, there's this flat, bony place.That's your acromion.Now, walk along-- I'm probably leaving white chalk here.Your fingers are walking from this flat, bony place-- there's a point here, and then your fingers are walking all along this landmark.It's posterior.You identified this as posterior previously.That's the spine of your scapula.Okay, so we know about the acromion.We know the spine.But look at all the rest of this.We have to find fossa, fossae--something superior to the spine.Something inferior to the spine.Something deep to the scapula.A medial and lateral border.A superior and inferior angle.And then these two strange words: a process-- 'coracoid,' not 'coronoid,' like on the mandible-- but the coracoid, and then something called the 'glenoid fossa.'So, you looked at this bone before class, and I think you took a quiz on it.So what can you find here?What do you know about the scapula?How are we doing here?Oh, we're doing well.Anybody want more time?Okay.So you've done your work, and here's everything labeled for you.Inferior angle, so we know how to orient superior-inferior.Here's the inferior angle.We know the acromion must be superior on the superior aspect, and it's also lateral, so this must be the medial border.So there's a lot of action here on the lateral side of the scapula.Now let's see what you can do with the other surface.This is now the anterior surface of the scapula-- you don't see the spine.This is a side that's going to be nearest to the ribs.Ooh!We're still working.This side is a little bit more challenging.So you can use what you know about what these words mean.A process is gonna stick out; a fossa does not.You know where inferior and inferior are.So the big job here is which fossa is which, and let's see how you've done.'Subscapular fossa' is what we call this-- this deep surface, or the anterior surface, of the scapula.Nice and smooth.The superior angle is, as you would expect, in the opposite end of the scapula than the inferior angle.The coronoid process sticks out.It's actually protruding in the anterior direction from the plane of the scapula, and the lateral border is opposite to the medial border, which you identified previously.So this-- big news here is this surface called the 'glenoid fossa.'And that's where your upper arm bone is gonna articulate with the scapula.This surface right here is the articulation surface for the upper arm bone.And let's take a sagittal view of the scapula.And here, I would like you to think about, 'What are we looking-- this is a sagittal plane view.Are we looking at a lateral-- from a lateral perspective, or from a medial perspective?'Where do you find that glenoid fossa: lateral or medial?Where's your arm bone?Lateral.So you're looking into the glenoid fossa.So you're-- this is a-- looking from lateral towards medial, here.Okay, a few more seconds.And here we go.And you've got this one, it's clear.So the subscapular fossa-- you can't really understand why it's fossa 'till you see this view.You can begin to appreciate the size of this articular surface for the upper arm bone-- or the humerus-- can see this supraspinous fossa and the spine here.So what can you feel of your scapula?You can feel the acromion.You can feel the spine.Can you feel any-- you can feel the inferior angle.Can you feel anything else?You can actually palpate the coracoid process.So to do that, find-- let's see, what have we got here.Acromion, the acromial end of the clavicle, a bump.Move medially on your clavicle, and where that curve is reversed, then jump off your clavicle into a space.Poke around that-- and there's something hard that is very uncomfortable to feel.That's actually your coracoid process.When you're feeling it, you're pushing through your pectoralis muscle, and pushing the pectoralis muscle against this coracoid process.That's why it's uncomfortable.Alright.So do you have grown-up clavicle and scapula?Well, most likely you do.The secondary ossification centers appear in puberty, and they're-- they're closed typically by twenty years old.So, most likely you're getting close to having an-- fully fused scapula in here.But maybe some that are still dragging a bit.There's some distribution.Alrighty.Let's go and look at this other bone involved in the shoulder joint.And that's the upper arm bone, or the 'humerus.'It's got a head.It's got a neck.It's got tubercles, big and small.It's got grooves.It's got condyles.It's got epicondyles.So these are bumps just above the condyles.Some fancy words, some fossae, and a ridge.Let's-- let's go learn this.Can you feel your humerus?Easiest place to feel your humerus is at your elbow.This bump right here, that bony bump you can feel, just above, that is, just proximal to the crease in your elbow, is your-- here's the crease in your elbow-- is the medial epicondyle.That's a medial bump on the humerus.That's easy to feel.Another place you can feel your humerus is proximally.So if you press here very proximally, you can actually feel a ridge, a little indentation in the bone there.You can feel this groove very proximally.This is the other very palpable landmark, distal and medial, proximal and anterior.And you can see the humerus here articulating with the glenoid fossa of the scapula.While we're here, look how big this articulating surface of the humerus is, and how small, relatively, the articular surface is on the scapula.Glenoid fossa is kind of flat.So what keeps your arm bone from just falling off?Why isn't gravity just pulling this arm bone off?There's not much bony integrity keeping that joint intact, so we will be looking for important ligaments and, of course, musculature.So, let's do the work of the anatomy of the humerus.What surface are we looking at here?Well, I see that groove, and I could feel that groove on the anterior aspect.So this must be anterior.So what do you know about the humerus?And you can use your knowledge of anatomical words to help you navigate this bone.What do you know and not know right now?I wouldn't expect you necessarily to know this yet.But hopefully your knowledge is growing.We are working.There is a long list here.Okay.And here we go.Ah, all labeled.Head is nice and smooth, the articulating surface.If this is the inter-- intertubercular groove between the tubercles, these must be the two tubercles.A big one, the greater; and a smaller one, the lesser.Deltoid tuberosity.How are you going to remember that?Where's your deltoid muscle?Where do you suppose your deltoid muscle attaches to your humerus?Deltoid tuberosity!Is your deltoid muscle lateral?Yep.So is the deltoid tuberosity.Now, distal is where we have to do our work.The so-called 'condyles' of the humerus have special names.One is the capitulum, and the other is the trochlea.Here's what you need to remember.One of them looks like a head; a 'capit;' a head, a rounded knob like you-- like the head of the humerus: the capitulum.And the other one looks like a bow tie.The trochlea looks like a bow tie.And there is a fossa called the 'coronoid fossa.'We're back to 'coronoid' again.We had a coronoid process on the mandible.Now we've got a coronoid fossa, or a depression, on the anterior distal humerus.So, let's keep doing the work.Now, we've flipped this bone around.We're looking at the posterior aspect of this humerus.And life is a little easier here, on this posterior aspect, in terms of what the job is today.Okay, here we go.And, let's look at everything labeled.Head faces medially towards the glenoid fossa of the scapula.The greater tubercle-- we can see how big that is.Something called the surgical neck-- I'll talk about this a little bit later-- this is where the humerus tends to fracture, thus called 'surgical neck.'Deltoid tuberosity we've seen before.And the medial epicondyle-- you have palpated on yourself.We've seen it before.And where there's a medial, there's often a lateral.The lateral epicondyle, you can't feel as easily on yourself 'cause it is buried in-- in muscle bellies.It's deep to muscle bellies.And a fossa on this side called the olecranon fossa.So that's the job that we have to do with respect to the humerus.But before we leave here, can you tell me-- can you find the anterior, distal, medial humerus?Can you orient this bone?Which surface is anterior?Which end is distal?Which side is medial?Alrighty.Here we go.You've made a choice?And... we have some debate.So I'm going to take the-- I'm not gonna put the answer up yet.Excuse me.That was kind of exciting.That was epic.Alright.So.What is the only hope in hell that you can tell what the anterior surface of this bone is?This is confusing.There we go.That groove tells you 'anterior.'You can feel it.You can see it.That's anterior.So now we're working only with this top picture.What do we know about distal?Well, we know the head is proximal, so it must be this end.And medial.They've got two clues for medial.The media epicondyle is more prominent than the lateral epicondyle.But the head of the humerus faces medially, because it has to articulate with the scapula.So the trick here-- the only-- you can logic everything out.The only thing you need to remember is this groove is anterior.And we all have mature humeri in here.Uh, we-- um.Here are the closure dates of the secondary epiphyses on this long bone.And here you see something else: the anatomical neck.Typically, the-- the epiphyseal line is a 'neck' on many bones.So the anatomical neck is here, as opposed to the surgical neck, which is a bit more distal.This is a detail, but this is where the bone tends to fracture more often.What's the anatomical name of the shoulder joint?Glenohumeral.When you say, 'the shoulder joint,' it could mean a lot of things.But 'glenohumeral joint' means one thing.The joint between the humerus and the glenoid fossa of the scapula.So while you are doing that, I am going to jump in here.Or not.I have to do this.I have to do something ugly here.Um, check Facebook for a moment, if you would like.I will be back with you shortly.And, I am going to add in here my neglected question of the day.Okay.So, back to our world.Type in the number '27.'Okay.Thank you.And look at how-- or three.Okay.So anyway, thank you.I-- you-- those points are hard-earned; I want you to get them.Okay.So let's talk about the other joints.We have, uh, just named the glenohumeral joint.But there are other bo-- there are two other bones here, and they have joints as well.So, we have a sternoclavicular joint.That's what you identified early on as where the axial and appendicular skeletons come together.Sternoclavicular joint.We have a joint between the scapula and the clavicle, a joint between the scapula and the humerus, which we just named 'glenohumeral.'And then a fake joint, where this scapula rides over the thoracic, uh, cage.Why 'joints' are in quotes there is because it's not an anatomical joint, but we talk about movement of that bone with respect to the body, so it's a fake joint.Alright.So let's talk about the sternoclavicular joint that you identified earlier.You know a lot about the movements of that joint already.You know that the clavicle can elevate and depress.You know that it can protract, and retract.And so that is happening at a synovial joint, between the sternum and the clavicle.And, that joint, like the temporomandibular joint, has a little fibrocartilage pad inside called a 'meniscus.'It is synovial joint of the ball-and-socket type.There are a lot-- there's a lot of mobility at that joint.The two movements I just named, and the clavicle can actually twist a little bit around its long axis.Classic synovial joint.And can you please name one?Pick one, name one.Write a number, and a name.If it was your job to name them, knowing what you know about anatomy-- and remember that we're not using the discoverer's name any longer, to name anatom-- so you can't name it by your name-- come up with another anatomical name for these ligaments.Okay, so, what have we got?We have intercostal, between the ribs.Interclavicular, between the clavicles.Sternoclavicular.Fibro-- that's not it- costoclavicular.Okay.So, do you see an intercostal ligament there?Do you see a ligament that runs between two ribs?I actually don't.This is the clavicle.This is a rib.So this would be a ligament-- number four is a ligament between the clavicle and a rib.So it might be better named 'costoclavicular ligament.'Two and three are between the clavicle and the sternum.So those are likely sternoclavicular ligaments.One is on the anterior side of the joint; the other on the posterior.And then one, someone named as 'between the two clavicles.'Interclavicular.So the point of this exercise is so that you could realize how easy the names of these ligaments are.Because if you know the names of the bones, you know the names of the ligaments.Done.Check.Something easy, finally.Alright.Some of you may have done this.Some of you may have broken your clavicle, right?Ouch.Anybody in here, broken a clavicle?Do you have a bump, or is it smooth?Uh-huh.So all of that discussion of, 'Is your clavicle smooth?'You-- check out the unaffected side.Sometimes when they heal, they heal with a remnant of a bump.Okay.This acromioclavicular joint.Really?There's a joint between the distal end-- excuse me, the lateral end of the clavicle, the acromial end, and the acromion of the sternum-- of the scapula.I'm rushing.Yes.And it allows a little bit of movement, actually.It's synovial, surprisingly.And the two bones just glide past each other.It doesn't rotate so much.So we have a nonaxial synovial, and it's important in allowing a lot of motions of the joint.Now, I told you previously that you could feel this.Anybody remember the name of this?Coracoid process.And here's why.Because we tend to think of-- you've seen the scapula as if it lies in the body like it would lie on the table.But it doesn't.It's at an angle.About a forty-degree angle, with respect to the anterior aspect of the body.And so that coracoid process, you can feel because it's protruding there, inferior to the clavicle.If any of you have done upper extremity rehab, sometimes a physical therapist will say, 'Do the movement in the plane of the scapula.'Hopefully the physical therapist is-- isn't saying that to you because you have no idea what the plane of the scapula is.Physical therapist said that to me.But that's-- that's what they're gonna mean.A slightly rotated forty degrees anterior.I see-- uh, so we're gonna stop here today, and not name these ligaments until next time.But we're in good shape.We have just a little bit more work to do on the shoulder joints.And then on Wednesday, we're gonna move into the bones of the distal upper extremity.See you then.