There it is.Okay, can you hear me?Ooh, I can hear me.I think I'm there.Welcome.We like this version of winter so much better, right?Soft, pretty snowflakes in your eyes.Thirty degrees feels balmy at this point.Okay.Any difficulties with those quizzes-- are you on board with those quizzes?Okay.So, I have-- I'm not hearing anything, so I'm gonna assume silence is a resounding, 'Easy!'Okay.No complaints about that.So, I just have this up here to point out to you that the first assignment, which is required, is due the-- a week plus from today, on the Wednesday after MLK Day.So I'm pointing that out to you because you might want to think about your coming weekend, if you don't get up to that library before then.So be sure you read that assignment pretty soon and get your arms wrapped around it, because you have to actually reserve a time to use the Anatomoge Table.So you might wanna make some plans sooner rather than later for that.And also, read the fine details.You need to take a selfie of yourself.Don't forget that.You need to bring a USB stick with you to take some images from the table that you'll turn in.Feel free to grab someone and go with them.You'll just each turn in your own images.But feel free to explore that table with somebody else, if you'd like.I'm gonna talk more about GradeCraft on Wednesday.The other thing that I want to talk to you about is what happened to the lecture recording last time.The person who set up the class-- I'm gonna jump outta here entirely-- the person who set up-- oh boy.The person who set up the class-- oh, speaking of classes-- here we go-- set up the recording for 8:39pm.So it recorded last Wednesday night.So, we caught that error and have changed it.But if you wanted to go back and look at what the lecture looks like in that mode, scroll to the bottom like I did here, past-- we're starting at two instead of at one because of this error.So if you wanna go back and look at the first lecture, scroll to the bottom.Notice this green button?An hour or so after class, this gree-- this button, which is greyed out now, will turn bright green.And when you click on it, you can get the video recording of the class.So you can watch me gesticulating up here if you like.So-- so this button will turn green, shortly after class.So that's that.And I'm gonna press this button up in the corner to go to full screen.Okay.So, let's start with learning about the stuff that the skeleton and the joints are made of.So today we're going to talk about some materials.But before we do that, let's just check in on how you're doing with these movements.What is this movement called, going from the top to the bottom here?This is a movement of the shoulder girdle.Silence once again has descended.Feel free to check in with your neighbor, if you need to.Check your answer against theirs.It's fine to talk.And look at where this movement is occurring.This bone, the so-called collarbone, seems to be responsible for moving.Okay.We're about two-thirds there.Anybody want more time, or do we have this done?Okay.And, let's see what we've got.And bravo, you did the quizzes.You learned what retraction is.Excellent.Oh-oh, how are we with these pelvis movements?This is a transverse view, looking down, on the superior aspect of a disembodied pelvis.And you can see the left foot.You can see what's anterior there, where the toe is pointing, so.Okay.I hope this one turns out as cleanly as the last one-- anyone want more time?Okay, here we go.Oh-oh, still working on this one.It's a left rotation.And why is that?We're taking the anterior side of the body and rotating it towards the person's left.And moving on, another pelvis movement, this time in the frontal plane.Consider which side of the pelvis is dropping here.Alrighty, here we go.And-- almost there.This person's left side is dropping, so this is left tilt of the pelvis.Okay.So if you've got all of this, you're in good shape, you're on top of things.If you're still a bit iffy, it's a good reminder to go back and get this stuff nailed down.Now, let's talk about the thumb.How did you do with the thumb movements?So just click on which of these hands is showing a picture of thumb abduction.Over here on the left, we have a frontal plane view of the movement.Over here on the right, we see a sagittal plane view.Alrighty, let's see how we're doing.And, huh.A little bit of a night sky going on here.Now the easy rule is the thumb is different than the fingers.So it's clear that this is a picture of finger abduction.So when the thumb moves out in the same way the fingers are moving out, that is not thumb abduction.Thumb abduction is when the thumb moves away from the palmar surface, in the sagittal plane, like that.We're going to keep working on these thumb movements, okay?This is a heads up, to get this sorted out.And finally-- I think this is finally-- what is this movement?I think this is the last question of the morning before we move into today's material.What's going on here?This is a rotation in the foot, around-- in the frontal plane-- around an axis going anterior-posterior.And this movement-- I'm sure you've got this one-- is inversion.The majority has it nailed down.So this medial border of the foot is lifting in inversion.Ah, still not-- oh, a new movement here.So the shoulder is very mobile.This is one of our features of being upright tool users, is that we can put our hands in a huge work space, and part of that mobility is due to mobility at the shoulder.So we know that the shoulder does this, and we know the shoulder does this.But, what about this?What are we going to call this movement?So we give that a special name.It's called horizontal abduction.So, moving away from the midline in a horizontal plane is horizontal abduction.And the reverse movement is adduction.Okay, so that's it for a little movement review, introduced one new movement, and now we're going to start talking about the tissues of the skeletal system.So you will know the types of connective tissues.First of all, what are connective tissues?Then we'll learn what's going on at the cellular level and around the cells, extracellular, in each of those connective tissues.We'll look a little bit at what the tissues might look like under a microscope.Then we are going to make the link between structure and function of those different tissues.We'll look at some particular categories of bones, and then we'll get to movement.So that's a lot to get through today.So you might, when you're reviewing your notes, go back to this-- I'll have one of these slides in every lecture, and see if you can relate to and explain these points.So it's a little bit of a review for you, post-class.So, our body is composed of four types of tissues.Today we're interested in the green one over there on the right.So we're made of nervous tissues, epithelial tissue-- those are the linings, the skin, and then the mucosa on the inside of the body, muscle tissue, and then this other one called connective tissue.So that's what we're focusing on today.So connective tissue is where bone, cartilage, tendon and ligaments are going to originate from.So these tissues are divided up this way because of how embryos develop, and each of these tissues are coming from a different part of the embryo.So the embryonic stem cells, mesenchymal cells that are, in the future, going to become connective tissues-- they go from kind of a generic stem cell in the embryo.They specialize into three different cell types, '-cytes' here, being the root for cells.The cells that are going to produce the fibrous tissues: fibrocytes.The cells that are gonna produce the cartilage tissues: 'chondro-' is a root for cartilage.And finally, the cells that are going to become bone cells: osteocytes.So we're gonna talk about these three types, specific types of connective tissue.The fibrocytes make something called connective tissue proper.That's a mouthful.Chondrocytes will make the cartilage, and the osteocytes will make the bone.So, what is in each of these types of tissues are these cells that you just learned the names of.But these cells make the stuff, make the proteins, that, uh, you find surrounding them.The extracellular, or the stuff around them.The matrix around the actual cells.So, that material is what gives each of these types of connective tissue a very different function in the body.So, uh, all of these connective tissues, in some way, connect structures.But we're going to focus now on connective tissue proper.There are many categories of dense, connective tissue proper.There is a dense type of connective tissue proper, and there, uh-- and that's what, as-- and that's what we're going to focus on.And there are four types, subcategories, of dense connective tissue proper.And we're going to focus on one of those.Okay.So I need to give you the scheme of, in the broader sense, in what you might have heard in other anatomy classes about these tissues.And we're just gonna focus on dense regular connective tissue.That's what tendons and ligaments are going to be made out of.So, for example, we're not going to talk about loose connective tissue that's gonna form the structure that fat cells might live in, for example.Okay.So: dense, regular connective tissue proper is designed to resist being stretched.So, what have we got going in this picture over here?We've got some dark spaces here, that show-- that are stained to show the nuclei of the cells inside the tissue.Not very many of them, compared to the amount of stuff around them.The extracellular component, that's stained purple here.And, what is that stuff around those cells?Collagen fibers.So those cells are-- are building collagen fibers that are-- is packed around this.Densely and regularly.Do you see how these collagen fibers are parallel to each other?That's the regular part of dense regular.So, if you get all of those collagen fibers lined up and parallel like that to each other, if you pull on one side of this tissue, it's going to stretch those collagen fibers.And they're gonna resist being stretched.It's like a rope.So, the structures that are made out of dense, regular connective tissue-- their job is to resist getting pulled apart.They resist being stretched.Gosh, that's a really convenient feature in ligaments that are holding one bone-- attaching one bone to another.We don't want our bones to fly apart.And tendons attach muscle tissue to bone.These tissues are going to transmit force, in the tension direction.So if you look under a microscope again, here's a picture of what a ligament might look like.You can see how organized these are, but they're a little bit wavy when they're unloaded, if you just laid a ligament on a table, and looked at it.But if you stretch it, look how they-- they line right up.They lose their wave-- waviness.A curly hair.It's curly until you stretch it, right?And it-- and it stretches out.So loading means that there are forces applied to it.In vivo, in life.So these-- these fibers are aligned in a direction in which loads would typically be a line in life, yes.Good question, and we're going to get to that in a moment.Typically, they're unloaded until a muscle contracts and pulls on it.Or until maybe I move my bones with respect to each other, and then they stretch.You can actually feel the stretch too.Thank you.Feel free to interrupt me.Okay, so pursuing that line of thought, what you're looking at here is a beagle's knee, and the ACL, or the anterior cruciate ligament inside a beagle's knee.The beagle is long gone.These bones have been potted into a machine that's gonna pull these bones apart in the direction shown.This experiment was done to find out just how strong these ligaments were, and to find out how much stretch, how much-- how far they could stretch before they tore.Okay?So, this is the curve that matches those pictures.Here's number one.About how far, how stretched, how elongated a few millimeters in this beagle knee, and then as you move along, as it gets-- uh, as time moves on and the bones move farther apart, what you're seeing here is the resistance force.How much of a fight those collagen fibers are putting up to being pulled apart.So it looks like the first thing that happens is not much resistance.Remember those collagen fibers are wavy?They're just straightening out here.They're not resisting much.Then we get into the linear part of the curve, where they're fighting with all their might to resist those bones being pulled apart, and then they start fracturing-- or excuse me-- tearing, at their max load.So what was interesting about this experiment that was done in the late seventies is that orthopedic surgeons at the time thought that if they opened a joint and saw that some of those fibers were still intact, that the-- the structure could still resist-- could still function.But you can see, even though it looks like it's still intact, it can bear absolutely zero load here.So, let's take that into context, and let's look at a human knee.This is a posterior view of a human knee.And let's assume-- here's the lateral side, and a blow coming at the lateral side of the knee, in this direction, or a blow coming to the medial side of the knee.Which direction of load here do you think is gonna tear this medial collateral (on the side) ligament?Person next to you, maybe, see if you can agree with them.It's a frontal plane view of the knee, posterior.Okay, let's see how we're doing.And, here we go.Mostly, you have seen what you need to see.This is the job of ligaments.This is why ligaments are attached to bone.To prevent the bones from getting pulled apart.You're exactly right.If you, the-- clip a football player, laterally, it's gonna displace the knee in the medial direction, and that's going to stretch this medial side of the knee, and the medial collateral ligament is gonna resist that.As it lengthens.With a blow in that direction.This is what ligaments do.Good job; you have figured it out.Okay.So now we're going to get back to your question about how much stretch is allowed.Tendons and ligaments resist being stretched by producing force.If stretched too much, injury occurs.So here's the load.Here's external force is applied, trying to stretch the ligament in the tension direction.If a clinician grabs your knee and manipulates it, let's say this is sideways, medial-lateral like we just saw, not much resistance.There's a little bit of laxity, or ability for this joint to move.If you're playing soccer, maybe you're in this region of the curve.But this is when you get into trouble, when that cleat sticks in the turf and the-- too much force is applied.Okay.So let's talk about how these collagen fibers are actually organized.Kind of the gross structure of a tendon, for example.A tendon is going to attach muscle to bone.So there's a very hierarchical, very organized arrangement of structures within a tendon.Here's the whole tendon.If you grab onto your Achilles tendon, distally there, posterior at your ankle, this is what you're grabbing on to.That whole structure is wrapped with a type of connective tissue that we call the peritendon, or epitendineum, upon the tendon.So the whole tendon is wrapped in connective tissue.If we go to the next level, there are bundles in there, wrapped with another layer of connective tissue, and those bundles are called fascicles.They're wrapped with something called the endotendineum, inside the tendon.Fascicles are composed of bundles of fibers.Fibers are composed of bundles of subfibriles.Subfibriles are bundles of microfibriles, and finally we get to collagen molecules.The tropocollagen.So it's bundle after bundle after bundle after bundle.The bundles I want you to remember about are the fascicles, bundles of fibers, wrapped with the endotendineum.Thus, the red line to draw your attention.And then the fascicles are bundled together to make the whole tendon.So, very parallel structured, hierarchical in that it's bundles of bundles.And this slide might have been better placed one slide ago, but we'll deal with it now.How stretchy do you think these things are?Any idea?Are these like rubber bands, or are they like ropes.Can they stretch-- if you have a ten-millimeter-long tendon, can it stretch... half-- a tenth of a millimeter, a whole millimeter, two millimeters...How stretchy is this thing?What do you think?Guess you could think about your own flexibility here.Alrighty.Here we go.We've got some rope people and some rubber band people.And it turns out that on average, our tendons and ligaments, about the max it can stretch is about four percent.Okay.Just ballpark figure, just so you have a sense of how stretchy they are.Okay.So we've done dense, regular connective tissue proper.Made out of fibrocytes with the cells.Those cells produce the extracellular matrix, which is full of a lot of collagen fibers.The structures that connect bones to bones are called ligaments.The structures that connect muscles to bones are called tendons.Now we're going to move on to another type of tissue called cartilage.There are three types of cartilage.We're gonna ignore elastic cartilage.And talk about hyaline and fibrocartilage.Fibrocartilage.I thought we just talked about the fibrocytes that-- okay.So fibrocartilage is still made by cartilage cells, but fibrocartilage has a lot of fibers in it, in the extracellular matrix.Okay.So, which one of these is fibrocartilage?The one over-- over at the right, where were you can see that it has a lot of collagen fibers in it.So, hyaline cartilage has the chondrocytes.And look at that funny word.Lacuna.Lacuna is a space.So the chondrocytes are living in a space that happens to be called a lacuna.Okay.In fibrocartilage, those chondrocytes are also in spaces, but there's a lot of the collagen fiber in the matrix.Collagen has an awful lot of water in it.Look.Seventy to 85 percent water.Cartilage also doesn't have blood vessels in it.So how do those chondrocytes get their breakfast without a blood supply delivering it?All that fluid is very important in these tissues.So this fluid moves through the extracellular space there, and the nutrients are in that fluid.Do you think these two might have different-- different jobs?One having more fibers in it?And the answer there is yes.And we'll see where these tissues are, and how that's associated with their function.The other thing about cartilage having so much water in it: what do you know about water balloons?They're incompressible.So if you squish a water balloon in one direction, it bulges out in the-- in another direction.Right?So the cartilage tissue is gonna be really good at resisting compression.Cushioning in joints is where we're gonna find cartilage.This is very different than that dense, regular connective tissue proper that didn't have much water in it.I put this question in here, but there's no way you would know the answer.Uh, so.Pick one, any one, and then we'll talk about it.Alrighty, here we go.And are we a mixed...?Yeah, look at that.We're a fifty-fifty group here.So it turns out that these cartilage discs between individu-- individual vertebra are, you can imagine-- are both cushioning.But they're also, at the spine bends, is going to prevent these bones from coming apart.Right?We want something that's gonna resist stretch as well as provide cushioning.So the answer here is fibrocartilage.And I will come back to that many, many times.So not to worry, if you were in the majority camp here, of hyaline.Here is where we find hyaline cartilage.This smooth, smooth, smooth bluish-white covering.Here, of a portion of the thigh bone, or femur, as it fits into the hip socket or acetabulum.It's coated with hyaline cartilage.It is so smooth, this essentially makes our joints friction-free.So hyaline cartilage is going to cushion as those bones bang against each other with every step you take, and also provide for friction-free motion of these bones as they move past each other inside of joints.Has anyone in here boned a chicken?Yeah.So many of you may be under the impression that chickens don't have bones in them at all because the meat comes in packages that doesn't have bones.However, if you buy a whole chicken, and maybe you want to cut it into the pieces yourself, or maybe you've roasted a whole chicken, and you've had to serve pieces of it-- vegetarians, my apologies-- you might have noticed that shiny, bluish-white when you get your knife right inside that joint.That shiny, glistening blue and white stuff-- that's hyaline cartilage you're looking at.So, how does cartilage do this job of resisting compression?It has these molecules in it.Proteoglycans, macromologies, molecules.Huge molecules that have both proteins and sugars in them.So they have a backbone of something called hyal-- hyaluronic acid.You can-- maybe your parents are taking this?Supplements, of some of these words-- chondroitin sulfate, to help with their cartilage.Here's a backbone.And then there are these bottle-brush-shaped molecules attached to that backbone.Keratin sulfate, chondroitin sulfate.The brushes on those molecules are negatively charged.Negative charges don't like to be near negative charges, so as they get close to each other, they repel each other.So what happens when you compress a molecule like that?It pushes these together.They don't like to be together, so they push back.So that's where the resistance to compression comes from.It's a biochemistry story.So the chondrocytes, the cells inside cartilage tissue, make these things.'Matrix' is what we call the extracellular material, the stuff around the cells.So what do I want you to take away from this?Is it important to pay attention to these particular names of mar-- of molecules?Not in here.In another course it will be.What I want you to take away is the concept of the-- this molecular structure that is going to explain the ability of this cartilage-- relate its structure to its function, which is cushioning.Okay, so here's a picture, then, of cartilage.Cartilage doesn't just have these bottle-brush proteoglycan huge molecules in it.It also has collagen fibers.Has both.So, in particular, in fibrocartilage, like we saw in those intervertebral discs, the bottle-brush molecules are gonna be really good for preventing-- for cushioning the spine bones.But these fibers are gonna-- when the spine bends-- is gonna help the cartilage from tearing apart as those boot-- bones move away from each other.So here's a picture of the cartilage tissue interstitial fluid.That's just the fluid moving through these spaces.When you load this tissue-- there's the unloaded view.Here's loaded.When you load it, some of this fluid moves out into the joint space.So it's putting a slick layer on top of that smooth surface, making it even slipperier, like skating.That's called weeping lubrication, in some of these joints.This fluid moves in and out.And that's also going to be supplying nutrients to the cells as the fluid moves back in when it's unloaded.Okay.So I want to reward those of you who got out of bed, to be in class.So I'm trying something new this semester.I'm gonna ask a question like this in lecture, so I know who's here, so that you can get your five points for actually being here.The reason I'm doing this is not because I believe in taking attendance.And in fact, I've avoided this for twenty years.But I think that what goes on in class is actually valuable for your learning.That's my hope.That's what I work hard for.And you'll talk to each other in here.We'll talk to each other in here, so that's-- that's what I'm working towards, and I-- and those of you who bother to be here should get the five points.So what I'm gonna do is open up this quiz and leave it open for a couple seconds, after I tell you the number, and then I'll close it, so that when I download the participation after class, I'll know who was here and who was just at home clicking.Okay.So we'll see how this goes, but that's-- that's what's gonna be behind this question of the day.Are you ready?Let's make it a... one.Are you ready to go?Okay.So click, click, click on that one.Write it on a piece of paper.Whoa.This is fun to watch.Okay.Anybody want more time?It looks like there are eighty-five of us in the room.Okay.If you didn't make it by the cut-off, write it on a piece of paper and give it to me.Okay.I guess that's an option too.Alrighty.So.We've done two out of the three tissues.Now we're going to move on to bone, where we'll spend much of the rest of the day.Bone tissue comes in two parts.Remember, we had dense, regular connective tissue that we talked about.And we said, depending on what it attached to, it was either going to be a ligament or tendon.Cartilage-- we talked about two types in here, hyaline cartilage and fibrocartilage.And then we're gonna talk about two types of bone tissue.Both of them are made by osteocytes.One is cortical bone on the outside, and the other is spongy bone, or trabecular bone.So bone has to have something very different in its extracellular matrix so it can be rigid, so it can support our body weight and protect our vital inner organs, or our viscera.So, we have compact bone, which-- which is the cortical bone.Which-- look, it's very compact looking.And then we have trabecular bone that looks to the naked eye like a sponge.So we're not looking at molecular level here.This is naked eye.If you bust open a chicken bone, you'll see some trabecular bone inside.Trabecular is-- these spikes of bone are called trabeculae.And compact bone has a very dense structure, which is very regular-- we'll talk about that in a moment.So the stuff around the bone cells-- look!Bone also has collagen fibers in it.It's everywhere.But of course, it has minerals in it.And, you know, one of the minerals: calcium.Bone, unlike cartilage or the tendons and ligaments, is highly vascularized.Lots of blood.Bone is a very dynamic tissue.And there it has, um, a high metabolic rate.And, so, a lot of blood.So here is a section of a femur, a thigh bone.This is a frontal plane section we saw a while ago, that this portion of the femur, the head of the femur, would be covered with hyaline cartilage to fit into the hip socket, or the acetabulum.And what do you see here?You see dense cortical bone covering the entire outside surface of this whole bone.And then here is the trabecular bone inside.This trabecular bone is very, very, very, very important for the strength of our bones.And, it accomplishes that strength in a very lightweight way.So let's consider cortical bone here.Here we've got the microscopic view.This is a cross-section.Typically, this would be a transverse cross-section.And what do you see?A very regular organization.You see circles of bone with a dark center.The dark center is not the bone cell.That's where there's a vessel.A blood vessel, up the middle.And then bone is laid around in circles around blood supply.And the bones cells themselves, also, and lacuna, are the small, dark, darkly-stained structures here.So these circular structures are called osteons.Osteons are only found in cortical bone.You do not find this regular organization of bone tissue in trabecular bone.It's the hallmark of cortical bone.Very dense.And, as you can see, here's a little chunk of cortical bone that has been removed from a whole bone and blown up here.So you can see the structure, this blood supply, forming the center of these osteons.There are also layers of bone around the outside of the whole structure.Circumferential lamellae.A lamella is a layer.These osteons are sometimes also called Haversian systems, named after the person who identified them originally.Now, you can imagine that these cylinders of bone tissue might be very good at resisting compression, applied end to end, of these osteons.And that's exactly what they do.Oh, a couple other words here.There's another connective tissue layer wrapped around bone called the periosteum.That word might come up in your reading.There are nerve tissues in there.That's partly why it can hurt a lot when you break a bone.Okay, so let's look at some of the mechanical features of this bone tissue-- in particular, the cortical bone with its osteons in it.If we load cortical bone parallel to these osteons, look at how strong it is.So this is how much force it takes to fracture bone tissue.These are the different directions that you could load a bone in.So the-- the axis there is stress.That's just normalized by the size of the specimen.But you can think of that as force.So what is bone designed to do?How is it strongest?It's designed to resist crushing, compression.It also resists getting stretched.When would you stretch a bone?Well, I'm doing it right now.My femur, my thigh bone, has an angle in it.It's not-- it's not just like this.It's shaped like that.So as I'm putting weight on the head of my femur here, that-- that neck of the femur is bending.Bending means there's gonna be stretching.So bone also has to be strong in the direction of tension.It has to-- remember, there were collagen fibers in there, right?That's gonna help resist getting stretched when bones are bent.If you take a twig and bend it over your knee, bones are doing that, right?They get-- they get bent.You can also share a bone if you try to push one part of it, past another.If you have a ski boot on and your ski stops on an icy patch, but your body keeps going.The distal end of your lower leg bones are fixed in the ski boot, but the other, the more proximal part of the bone, is still moving, 'cause your-- that's a shearing force on a bone.So if you wanna break a bone, load it in this direction-- that's the easiest way to break a bone.This is the next easiest way to break a bone, and that's the hardest way.Compression to break a bone.This is what your grandparents' bones look like, on the right.This is trabecular bone we're looking at here.Spongy bone, so when you lose-- with osteoporosis, with aging-- when bone building falls behind, bone resorption, or if you're an astronaut in space, you lose bone mass.This is what's happening.So that extracellular material starts to disappear.And this osteoporotic bone is much weaker than healthy young trabecular bone.We think of osteoporosis, perhaps, as a postmenopausal phenomenon in women.It also happens in men.Menopause accelerates this osteoporosis process.Okay, so that's it for the tissues.Today is kind of a-- I've got a lot to say to you today about these tissues.Next time we'll talk about particular bones.We'll start learning actual human bones next time.But we have to get through what are the bones and joints made of today.Okay.So before there were microscopes, Anatomous started trying to categorize the bones that they might see.So they were categorized as long bones, short bones, irregularly-shaped bones, bones that looked flat, and sesamoid bones.Um, little seed-like bones that are found inside tendons.So here's a question for you.What type of bones do you think are in your hand?Given that description that you just saw?They're long bones.Okay, let's talk about that.Kind of a mean question for me to ask, because, oh my gosh, they look like short bones.They're not very long.But, the key thing about long bones, the only-- the defining feature of long bones is that they have a hollow shaft.You don't know if your hand bones have hollow shafts in them at this point.How is that a fair question?So I asked you this question just to draw your attention to the fact that the definition of long bones is not actually how long they are, but whether or not they-- they're hollow inside.Turns out, even your little teeny tip-of-the-finger bones are long bones, because they're hollow inside.Not exactly fair of me to ask you that, but hopefully I got your attention.These are actually short bones, here.Long bones, even if they're in your fingers, or the short-- the little bones in your hand-- have a shaft that is hollow.They have proximal and distal ends that are filled with trabecular bone.We call this shaft the diaphysis, and importantly, this is-- these are important words to learn.The ends are called epiphysis-- I'm gonna say it plural-- epiphyses.One is calling epiphysis.So there's a proximal epiphysis, and a distal epiphysis.And a hollow diaphysis in the middle.It's not really hollow.It has marrow inside of it.Yellow marrow.Restaurant week is next week?And the Grange used to serve marrow bones, which would just-- anybody been to France and eaten marrow bones?Yeah.So that would be slices of typically cow long bones, and baked.And you can suck that delicious marrow out of the middle.If you can get past the texture.Absolutely delicious.Okay.So anyway, that's what I need you to learn about these long bones.Epiphyses and diaphyses, and the epiphyses are filled with trabecular bone.Red marrow is found in the spaces of the trabecular bone, as opposed to the yellow fatty marrow in the diaphyses.Okay, this is actually-- see, there's some images.And of course, you can type in here.What the portion of the long bone might have inspired this work found somewhere in Santa Fe.And you have typed, I trust, the word diaphysis.And the challenge of spelling begins in this course.The challenge of spelling will actually be in the lab, because in here you won't have to spell anything.You'll just have to check boxes.Ooh, diaphysis without marrow.Oh yeah.Okay.So.Let's talk about anatomy before you're born.You started out as an embryo and then you become a fetus.There's a skeleton in the fetus.What is the skeleton made out of?The skeleton in the fetus begins as hyaline cartilage.That cartilage is replaced by bone.In this four-months-- three-month fetus, you can see bones where the hyaline cartilage has been replaced with actual bone tissue.But then there are parts of bones that aren't yet bone.They're made of hyaline cartilage still.I am drawing your attention to this for a number of reasons.One: it's absolutely fascinating how bone is developed, and maybe you'll have a chance to learn more about that, um, sometime in your coursework here.Also, we'll be looking at lots of x-rays of bones.And you can you can determine how old someone is by how much hyaline cartilage is still present in their bones.Likely no one in this room except me has a fully mature skeleton at this point.Your bones may not even be finished yet.Okay?So, um, we talk about a primary center of ossification, and a secondary center of offi-- ossification, typically in the epiphyses.So this is the process.Do not worry about all the words here.I'm just gonna skim over this, just so you have an idea of what this is.This is the epiphyseal plate.This is the growth plate.So you remember when you quit growing in high school?That's because these plates disappear.They were replaced with bone.This is how your-- your limb bones grow, these long bones-- is the cartilage keeps growing outward, and then it gets replaced with bone behind it.That's how bones grow.So we start out with a hyaline cartilage fetal skeleton, first starts in utero, becoming bone, going through this transition to bone in a primary ossification center with the arrival of the blood supply in the, uh, medullary cavity, or this cavity in the diaphysis of the long bone.And then the secondary ossification centers start.Some of the secondary ossification centers don't begin until after birth.Here you see something labeled articular cartilage.This is hyaline cartilage.Sometimes hyaline cartilage is called articular cartilage because we find that at-- covering the ends of bones, inside some joints or articulations.Alrighty.So now, I'm gonna play you a little movie that describes this process.Don't worry about the details.This is just how you can understand where bones come from.So I'm gonna play this.I have no idea about volume, so I'll be playing with that a little bit.No volume.That's where we are.I have mute on; that's why.There.Cells, known as osteoblasts, deposit calcium around the outside of the model, forming a bone collar.Inside the shaft of the cartilage model, cartilage cells increase in size, and then die.They leave a cavity of interconnecting spaces within a calcified matrix.Small blood vessels grow into the cavity, bringing nutrients, and cells such as osteoblasts and osteoclasts to the developing bone.Osteoblasts, bone-forming cells, begin depositing bone tissue along the remaining cartilage.The bone continues to grow in length from the middle outward.This is the primary center of ossification.After the birth, secondary sites of ossification form at the ends of the bone.As the bone grows in length and width, the marrow cavity continually is reshaped by bone-eating cells called osteoclasts.Eventually, most of the cartilage is replaced by bone tissue.The epiphyseal growth plate, a layer of living cartilage, remains to allow for continued bone growth into adulthood.These plates disappear once the bones have reached adult length.Mmm, you might wonder why that pops up on my YouTube, if you-- okay.Okay, so that's interesting.I've also put that movie in the module if you want to watch it again, for some reason.There's a different bone growth process for flat bones, like the bones in your skull, that's intramembranous, as opposed to endochondral.But, uh, the endochondral story is what we need for most of the bones we're gonna be talking about.Okay, here is the challenge of the day.Getting on top of the vocabulary that's about to come.So we've talked about bones now.Now, let's put them together.Let's articulate them, or make joints between them.Where the bones come together.And bones come together in two ways.Where there's motion between the bones, and where there's not so much motion between the bones.And we call those two things synarthrosis, or diarthrosis.What is arthrosis?Arthritis.Something about the joints.So that root-- root word, Ò-throsis,Ó is gonna mean arthrosis is a joint.ÒSyn-Ò means synergy.Synthesize.Put it together.So maybe that will help you begin to remember that the synarthroses typically do not have nearly as much motion as these purple joints, the diarthroses, which are the synovial joints in our body, that are characterized by a lot of motion.So the thing here about the diarthroses is that there's a space between their-- the bones.The synarthroses, the space between the ends of the bones where they come together, is filled with a material.And the material can either be fibrous connective tissue, or cartilage connective tissue.So now we're going to subdivide those synarthrosis into fibrous joints and cartilaginous joints, based on what the filler material is.The synovial joints have synovial fluid.Okay.So now let's dive into these particular types of joints.So the fibrous category of the synarthroses-- there are three types of joints that we're going to talk about here.The filler material is dense connective tissue, and there's no joint cavity.These fibrous joints are sutures.We find those in one place: between the bones of the skull.They look like they've been stitched together with sutures.Those are the suture joints.Syndesmoses, we also don't find many places.Binds the bones-- the two bones of the lower leg together.Gomphoses hold your teeth in their sockets.Okay.So, what do you remember here?If it's not a tooth, and if it's not a skull bone, it's a syndesmosis, okay?The fibrous connective tissue materials.And here are examples.Here's the syndesmosis fibrous tissue.We do not want the two bones of our lower leg to be moving with respect togeth-- to each other.We want limited motion.They're bound with fibrous tissue that's called a syndesmosis.Here are the sutures that are binding the separate bones of the skull together.And then the gomphosis is very particular to the teeth.Cartilaginous joints: we have two kinds.We have two kinds of cartilage.So we have a synchondrosis or symphysis.Synchondrosis.So that's going to tell us that there's cartilage involved, 'cause you recognize that root, 'chondro.'There's a little bit of memorization here, because you have to remember the symphysis is a joint that is fibrocartilage.Fibrocartilage.Hyaline cartilage is associated with the synchondrosis.You've already seen these.Those intervertebral joints you already identified were made out fibrocartilage.They're joining the vertebrae together.So they're the fibrocartilage type of cartilaginous joint.So these are symphyses.Hyaline cartilage binds the epiphyses and diaphyses-- diaphysis of a long bone.So strictly speaking, that's a joint.And that would be a synchondrosis.There's some other particular ones, where the bony ribs come together with the hyaline cartilage in the rib cage.That's also a synchondrosis.But that's-- that's detail.This is important to remember.Finally, we come down to the diarthrosis, which is the movable joint where there's a joint cavity, and that joint cavity is filled with synovial fluid.Okay.The bone ends are lined with hyaline cartilage, that articular cartilage.And these joints have a structure of there's a joint capsule around this space, and there are often ligaments that strengthen that joint capsule.So let's look at that.Here is a schematic view.Here's a long bone with a diaphysis and epiphysis, another long bone.You can see the synchondrosis, the hyaline-- well, this is a mature bone.This is where the growth plate would be.Here's hyaline cartilage covering the ends of each of these bones, the joint capsule with a synovial membrane lining that produces the fluid that fills this space, and ligaments that reinforce this capsule and help hold these bones together.Remember, these are mobile joints, so we don't want the bones to come apart.So the ligaments here are helping to restrict the amount of motion that might be possible at these joints.Here's a section.This is a frontal plane section through a shoulder joint.Here's the upper arm bone, or the humerus, and the scapula that it's articulating with.You can see hyaline cartilage here, and the literal space between these bones.That's the synovial cavity.You can see cortical bone here and trabecular bone.Here is a child's hand.And I would like you to tell me what kind of joints these are.Not the big space here, but here, and here, and here.This is an aspirational question.You're just learning about these joint type-- types now in the past few minutes.So if it's not on the tip of your tongue yet, it will be.So we're just working through this now, so don't be concerned if you're not really sure what you're looking at just yet.Okay.So I'm gonna point out a few things here.What are we looking at?So these are the bones in their hand.Remember earlier, I asked you what type of bones these were, and many of you thought they were short bones because they look short.But here you can see that they're long bones because you can see cortical bone, hollow inside, and then here, the epiphyses.So now you can understand why these are long bones.And in fact, your finger bones are also long bones-- these little teeny bones-- because they also have-- are hollow on the inside with the cortical bone on the outside.These are the growth plates.Here it's a secondary ossification center for these finger bones.So it hasn't fused yet.So there's a remnant of hyaline cartilage, which you can't see here in x-ray.It appears black in x-ray.Only the bony material shows up white here.So I was asking you to tell me what kind of joints are between the diaphysis and epiphyses of these long bones in the hand.And the answer is synchondrosis.Some of you said synovial.These are the synovial joints, these big spaces.Between the bone of the hand and the most proximal of the finger bones, right.So maybe you weren't looking so closely at where those arrows went.Does anybody have trouble understanding why-- where the synovial joints are here?You were very, very warm, but not quite there.On the thumb, you can really see this: the synchondrosis, synovial synchondrosis.So if we knew when these growth plates closed typically, we might be able to guess how old this child is.Oh.So speaking, here we go.This is a lower leg bone, your tibia or your shinbone.The one-year-old, by eighteen months, these secondary ossification centers are-- have started to ossify.First grade, there's still a growth plate.Looks like somewhere between middle school and high school.Those growth plates are closing.You can remember when you quit getting taller.That's when your growth plates closed.We don't have a hand bone here, so we don't know when the hands mature.But we do have a fractured tibia here.This is a former 230 student who was roller blading, and got the roller-- the blade stuck in a crack in the sidewalk and fell, twisting this tibia.And it fractured with its classic spiral fracture, which is a how a bone fractures when it's in tension.And I want you to tell me how-- oops, I already told you, um.This wasn't a 230 student.Uh, you can see the splint on here.How old do you think this person was?So you have to take the information here and read this x-ray.Do you see anything in this x-ray that's related to what you see over here?This is a frontal plane view.Left leg, says up here A P.So this is a shot in-- along an anterior-posterior axis, perpendicular to the frontal plane.Ooh, it's 9:55, we're supposed to be done.Anyway, this person was likely all-- this growth plate is almost closed, so I would put them closer to eighteen years old, rather than closer to the-- the middle school age.Okay, so I will finish this next time and we'll start talking about actual bones.Um, thank you for your hard work this morning, and enjoy the snowflakes.