Good morning, everyone.Welcome to Wednesday.I know I have a cold, but this is kind of scary that nobody wants to get near me.Okay.But I guess if a cold is the worst this season has delivered to me, I'm doing well.I am gonna start with some logistics for the course.First of all, where is your participation for last Monday?I don't know.Active Learning Platform doesn't know.The data seems to have escaped.So I'm gonna give everybody credit for Monday.I have no idea what's gonna happen with today's data; their engineers are working on it.I have never had this much problem with Active Learning Platform.I'm sure it doesn't make you very confident, but we'll get there.Uh, that's number one.Number two, I'm gonna talk about GradeCraft today.Um, I--- let's go-- let's go there.Because there's an assignment due a week from today, and you might be wanting to know where is that assignment?So let's go to GradeCraft.You know what?I'm gonna switch to Student View, so my-- mine will look like yours.Maybe.Or maybe not.Let's see.Yep.And when this happens, it turns into somebody else's course.Uh, okay.I can't be a student.I will just be me.And we'll try again.Okay.So.Here it is.I am-- someone has alerted me to this.These messages are wrong because they say you can take the quiz as many times as possible.I will fix that pronto.You do get one-- one chance for those quizzes.So I will fix that.Now, where the heck are the assignments?These magical green lines up here are the key to Gra-- GradeCraft.If you quick on that-- click on that, look at what happens!Here everything appears.Assignments and the Grade Predictor preview.So let's go to Assignments, and voila!Everything's here.It's amazing.Let's go to the Anatomoge Table.Here is the assignment.You click on this, and... two people have done it already.Oh, I've never had it not respond to me before when I've gone to open it.So I'll do it this way.This little drop-down over here.Nothing is happening when I click.Okay.Can-- can any of you click on the assignment and get to it?No, it's not happening.Okay, so let's try again.Maybe it doesn't know who I am.Okay, here's GradeCraft again.Okay.GradeCraft is fussing; it's-- okay.So let's go to Syllabus instead.Okay.I have revised the syllabus.If you noticed, if you looked at the first one, there were no points in there for what was an A.Now there are points for what is an A.So I am-- so when you click on Syllabus, you come to this page.And you can see the quiz due dates here, but not the assignment due dates, because the assignments are posted in GradeCraft.They're not posted in the Assignment section of Canvas like you might be used to looking for them there.You have to go to GradeCraft to get the assignments.But I'm going to click on this Syllabus document, and let's see if I can get it to open.Okay.So here's the syllabus.It looks the same on the first page.Here is where it looks different on the second page, so I would encourage you to re-- re-download your syllabus.So there are lots of ways to get to an A.It turns out an A is twenty-two fifty points; two thousand, two hundred and fifty points.So here are three examples of how you could earn that.So with maybe some different scenarios.Let's start with a procrastinator.Any of you might be in that category?So here are the required assignments here.And let's say you think you're gonna get an 85 percent average on the exams, because maybe that's what you do typically.So they're the poi-- so if you predict that, asterisk says it's required, Pre- and Post- Quiz says you're going to miss some.You do-- you get about 85 percent of the points, but you're gonna get 90 percent of the points on the required Anatomoge Table assignment due next week.And this anatomy language analysis assignment.So that's the required stuff.Now you get to choose.So you think you're gonna attend twenty out of twenty-three class sessions.I'm an optimist.And you think you're going to complete one anatomy field experience and get 95 percent of the points.You're not going to bother with any of those literature reviews.You're not going to bother with the-- the optional anatomy language analysis assignment.And-- oh, it looks like I have anatomy literature reviews in two places.Um.So you're gonna put all of your points into the bucket of the case study and the grand rounds follow-up on that.And this muscle-tendon case study is due in the last third of the class, okay?So that's an example of really not paying attention to this course, until the end of the course.Okay.Maybe you wanna just-- let's go up to solid and steady.You're gonna do all of these required assignments.Again, you're gonna attend most of the classes and you're gonna jump in and do the field experience early on.You're gonna do a case study.You're gonna choose to do the Anatomoge case study, that's due about in the middle of the course, and you'll follow up with the grand rounds there.Maybe you want to get this course all the points up front, because you know that you've got a whole bunch of exams in April, and you really wanna focus on those other courses in April.So you wanna grab your points as soon as you can.So you do-- but you think you're only-- you're gonna miss about five of these classes.You're not gonna bother with the field experience.Instead, you're gonna do all-- you're gonna do three out of five options.You can only get points for three of them of these literature reviews, 'cause you can do that on your own time.You don't have to go anywhere.You're gonna do the first case study option, and you're gonna not bother with the ground-- grand rounds.You're just gonna do literature reviews.So you see how you can choose what assignments you wanna do in these optional buckets?Okay.So now, let's go back, and-- oh, oh.I'm sorry.The important point, we didn't get to, which is the points.So they're here.Okay.So this is what you're aiming for, for whatever grade you wanna get in this course.Okay, so let's go see now if GradeCraft will-- oh, this looks more promising.So I'm gonna go to these three green lines again, and I'm going to go to Assignments and check out that Anatomoge Table assignment.I have no idea why it's dead.Can anyone get in, to GradeCraft right now?Can you?The-- what?Yeah?You don't see those...?Um, so, how-- uh.So, those of you who have gotten to the Anatomoge assignment: how did you find it?Can someone stand up and tell us how you got it?You found it, didn't you?How did you get there?Okay, Upcoming Events.That's how you can navigate.Um, and has anyone tried the Grade Predictor yet?Some people have, 'cause I see the evidence of it.So this is what it looks like.You can go in and slide over.You can see the points building.You think you're gonna get 85 percent on the exams, so you can just fill in the exams.And you can see your points building.You know you're gonna do all of these, so you can slide all of these over.And you can see how the points are growing.So this is how you can predict where you are in the course, and how many points.I'm gonna add in how many points it takes to get to-- to the letter grades.So you can see exactly where those are a little bit later today.This has been a bit of a bust of a demo, since I didn't know you didn't have the three green bars.Oops.So let's wait for this to reload, and we will do as what was suggested.Maybe.I will give it three more seconds, and then I'm gonna bail.One, two, three.I'm bailing.I will do a GradeCraft demo later, when I figure out why it's not loading and what's going on.But anyway, that's where you should go.I've been told that the links to the instructions of the Anatomoge Table aren't there because it's a PDF assignment.So I will make live links in the assignment instruction box.Okay.Please email me if you have any issues.I clearly am having issues up here, but we can work together to resolve them.I know some people have been-- yes.They are posted!Thank you for pointing that out.Where do you find the stuff?If you click on-- let's click on today.So there's a whole module.When you click on today's lecture, the-- here are links to the quizzes.Here are links to the practice quizzes.Oh!I didn't upload today's.It should be there.You know what-- I'm going to make live last semester's, and then I'll-- so you can get that now.Normally, I publish them in the module.Thank you for pointing that out.And then, the after-class practice items are here as well.Okay.Thank you for asking that question.That's important.I've been very distracted by trying to get GradeCraft to work; therefore, I didn't post today's PowerPoints.Sorry about that.Any other questions?Are you more confused now than when I started talking?It's a possibility.Okay.I'll go in again next Wednesday, but just talk to me if you have issues, please.Alright, another thing that you might notice is that I didn't finish the slides from last lecture.I'm gonna go over a few of them today, and then we'll move on.So everything I don't finish from the last lecture, I'll move into the current lecture.So you don't need to switch between days in Active Learning Platform.Okay.So what is there still left to say about skeletal tissues and joints?Any clue?What type of joint this is?Do you have any recollection of what that might be?We're gonna talk about the spine today, so this is gonna be more relevant shortly.What type of material is this that is filling the space between these two bones and attaching them to each other?Anybody want more time?Nobody's-- nobody's telling me they want more time, so here we go.And, voila.The cartilaginous joints.People have it.It's the type of cartilaginous joint that is made out of fibrocartilage, which is different from dense, regular, fibrous connective tissue.What do you call a fibrocartilage joint?Which of these 's' words belongs to fibrocartilage joints?And sadly, the answer is: none of them.And thus the confusion.Synchondrosis is hyaline cartilage.The 's' word that is not here that should be here is synarthrosis.A synarthrosis is a non-synovial joint.I'm just like batting 100 percent on confusion up here this morning.Synchondrosis is a hyaline cartilage joint.Syndesmosis is a fibrous joint.A synovial joint has a joint space.The joint that you saw does not, so it can't be synovial, and a suture is in the bones of the skull.So it's none of these.The correct answer is synarthrosis, or symphysis.So now you have six 's' words to deal with.Symphysis, in particular, is a fibrocartilage cartilaginous joint.That's what this is.A sy-- this is a symphysis.It belongs to the broader category of non-synovial joints, called a synarthrosis.And that will be shown for you here.So the joint that you were just looking at, made out of fibrocartilage, is this one.A symphysis.It's a cartilaginous joint where the space is filled with fibrocartilage, and it belongs to the larger category of a synarthrosis.Okay.So you see, the job you have to do here is sort out all of these 's' words.I'm gonna move now and talk about synovial joints.These we think of as being movable joints.Some synarthroses are also a bit mobile.But the key feature of synovial joints is that the space is not filled with material.It's got a joint cavity.And that joint cavity has synovial fluid in it.So we further categorize synovial joints by the types of movement that occur at them.And if you look up here, you see the word 'axial' in all of these.In other words, a joint axis, rotation around an axis.There might be one axis, uniarticular; two axes, biarti-- biaxial; or three axes, triaxinal-- triaxial.There's also a nonaxial.That's because it doesn't rotate around an axis.It has linear motion.The bones glide past each other, so we don't think of that as rotating around an axis.So an example of that might be these little bones in the wrist, where the flat surfaces slide past each other.We talk about the combined motion of all of those nonaxial joint motions as wrist flexion, or extension, or radial or ulnar deviation.But in between those individual bones, they're just sliding past each other.They're not rotating in the same sense that your shoulder rotates in three different axes.Uniaxial.We think of the elbow.It does one thing.It rotates around one axis.Your wrist.Uh, uh-- we'll talk about this joint between your hand bone and your finger bones.We talked about fingers being able to ab- and adduct, and flex and extend.So that motion is happening here at your knuckle.And you can move in two different planes, sagittal or frontal, because of this biaxial joint.And then I've just talked about the triaxial.This joint, your forearm joint.Let's put it together.This movement of pronation and supination between the bones of your forearm.How would you describe that, both functionally and structurally?Function being the movement, structure being the anatomical classifications of the type of joint.Let's see how I'm doing, since--.Okay, I hear discussion.That's always good.Alrighty.Here we go.This joint is uniaxial and synovial, so it rotates around one axis.The axis going through the forearm.Rotating, spinning around that axis.And those bones are joined by a synovial joint that allows that motion.Synarthrosis means non-synovial joint.Synchondrosis means hya-- cartilaginous joint of the hyaline cartilage type.Syndesmosis means fibrous joint.And synovial, there's a joint cavity.So here's what can happen, unfortunately, to us, as time marches on.This hyaline cartilage that caps the ends of the bones in a synovial joint can wear out.When that smooth, slick hyaline cartilage wears out, then the bone gets exposed.This is a very, very painful joint.This is a joint that has osteoarthritis, inflammation of the joint.That's opposed to rheumatoid arthritis, which is a systemic disease.This is a wear-and-tear arthritis.Osteoarthritis.And the joint can respond by laying down new bone called bone spurs.And this is a very, very painful joint.It's so painful impact-- in fact, that people elect to have these parts of bone removed from their body and replaced with endoprostheses to alleviate the pain.A normal knee joint.There's lots of space here.Nice thick hyaline cartilage, which isn't shown here in x-ray.And as that cartilage a little-- literally wears down, you can see that the joint space gets smaller because the cartilage has worn away.So I'm not gonna take the time to show these videos here.They explain-- they show you quickly what a synovial joint is.They talk about the development of osteoarthritis, and here you can see what a surgery might look like, mocked up to replace the-- an arthritic knee joint, for example.Okay, so just watch those on your own.They're very short.A couple of minutes.So now we're ready for today.Now we're gonna look at actual bones that have names, and actual structures.We're gonna start with the axial skeleton.That's the skeleton at the axis of the body, or the trunk.So again, here's what we're gonna cover and go back at the end of this module and see if you can remember what is pointed out here.So it looks like we're gonna talk about the skull, and the spine, and the joints between them.So which are the bones that belong to the axial skeleton?And they're the ones that you can see, the ones that aren't in faded-out yellow here.So we're gonna be talking about this skull, the spine, the rib cage, and a little bit of the pelvis.The sacrum.So interestingly, that means that the rest of the pelvis and your shoulder girdle belong to the limbs.They're part of the appendicular skeleton.We're gonna be talking today and next time just about the axial skeleton, at the axis of the body.So.Let's start with the skull, up-- up top, superior, cranial word.And we're-- this is why, in the direction of your head, is called in the cranial direction, because that's where we find the cranium.But the skull consists not only the bones of the cranium, but also the bones of the face.So we're gonna divide up the bones.The cranium is the part that holds our precious brain tissue.And then the face is on the anterior part of the cranium, and that's gonna be associated with chewing, and with the spaces that will allow for our sensory organs.So here are the five bones of the cranium we're gonna learn.When you're in medical school, you'll learn the names of a lot more of the bones of the skull.But these are the five that we're going to learn about in here, because they are-- they serve as attachment points for some of the muscles that we're gonna be talking about.So do you know, from your pre-class quiz, what these bones might be?Sometimes conveniently, the names of the bones give information about where they are.And consult with somebody next to you if you like.See if you got the same ordering.Let your neighbor teach you.Learn by teaching your neighbor.Okay.Oh, we're coming along.How are we doing here?Couple more seconds.Anybody in here want more time?Okay, we're still working.That's fine.Okay.Here we go.And it looks like we have the majority of answers in the right place.Let's name them in your notes.Up front, number one: blue bone, frontal.Your forehead is a frontal bone.Two is parietal.You've got a pair of parietal bones, right and left.Three, the purple bone: occipital.It's where my son-in-law now places his man bun.Uh, five, pink, temporal; here where the ears are.And then this little bone is the sphenoid.Okay, this little one right here.So what can you feel at these bones?If you feel, uh, this bone right here, lateral to your orbit, or your eye socket, you can feel that rigid bone.Now, if you move posterior, your fingers are on your parietal bone.Or, excuse me.Your sphenoid bone.That's where the yellow one is.Just-- just posterior to that peruber-- protuberance on the lateral side of your orbit.Okay.So, uh, frontal bone.Up front, anterior, and superior to your nose.One landmark to learn there.The glabella.The glabella is between your eyebrows, and you can feel that ridge of bone right there.That's your glabella.Parietal bones form the sides and roof of the cranial vault.Now, if any of you have taken Bio Anthro, 'cranial vault' is a term you might be used to, because we wanna measure the size of the brain.So the size of the cranial vault is an indicator of how big the brain is, inside.You've got a right one and a the left one, and there's a seam down the middle, and you already know what the type of joint is, between those two parietal bones.The occipital bone is posterior.If you put your hand on your occipital bone, and you can feel some bumps there.And that bump that you're feeling is the external occipital protuberance.A protuberance is something that sticks out.And certainly you can feel that bump of bone, posterior.Maybe you remember, from doing somersaults as a kid on the TV room floor-- maybe you got a bruise there?I have a memory of that.Occipital condyles-- condyles are knuckles, rounded.So here are the occipital condyles.Ooh, what am I looking at here?I'm looking at an inferior view of the skull.Here is the occipital bone, here's posterior, the teeth are anterior.Here is the external occipital protruberance.Here are the condyles.Nice, smooth-- you'll see those in the lab better, but they're nice, smooth surfaces.That's what's gonna articulate with the first vertebra.There's a great big hole here.A mag-- magnum hole.The foramen magnum.Now, why do you have a big hole in the base of your brain-- of your-- oh, there's the answer.In the base of your skull.Brain to spinal cord, right?Spinal cord has to get connected to the brain.It passes through that great big hole.Foramen magnum.And then we have some things called inferior nuchal lines.Inferior-- we know that where that would be.Nuchal?Nuchal is a word for the posterior aspect of the neck.So, that's telling us that on the posterior aspect, there are gonna be some raised lines of bones, superior and inferior.In the lab, you happen to be able to see the inferior lines more clearly, so I pointed those out to you here.Those are gonna be important because muscles attach there.Okay.So moving on to the temporal bone.This one.And it's got all sorts of fancy stuff on it.And this fancy stuff we're going to name.So there's a hole in this bone, right here, and you could put your fingers in that hole.External auditory meatus.For some reason, that hole is called a meatus instead of a foramen.External, because they're seeing it on the external side.And auditory, because that's where our ears are, okay?That's the external auditory meatus.And then there are two processes, or extensions of bone: a big one and a little one.The big one-- massive one-- is the mastoid process, and you can feel that easily on yourself if you find your ear lobes, and move posteriorly.Question.I'm sorry...?I'm sorry, I don't quite get it.Is the external auditory meatus what?External what?Acoustic!Funny, I had trouble hearing you.Yes, it might be.Thank you.So maybe in another book would call it the acoustic one.It-- it-- yes, yes, yes.Great question.So when you read anatomy books, unfortunately, they're not all consistent.There's an international group that struggles-- or that defines-- what the official terms are for things.So I'm not sure whether that international nomenclature group, uh, would call it-- has maybe shifted it to 'acoustic' instead of 'auditory.'I'm not sure where they are in that.And you're bringing it up, so you've seen it somewhere.So we're going to use what I put here as ground truth, okay?With an understanding that other books or sources might call it other things.So thank you for that question.That was really important.Uh, the language shifts.Moving on, we're going to see that terms like your Achilles tendon, that's named after somebody, Achilles.So, the more current term for that is 'calcaneal tendon,' named after the bone it attaches to.But in clinical practice-- in common practices too-- it might be called Achilles.So we'll be-- we'll be dancing around that sort of thing, as well.Alright.But the point is: associated with your ear.Excellent.Um, styloid.Are there any DJ's in here?Anybody who uses actual vinyl?Puts a needle on vinyl?Back in-- when I was an undergrad, we only had vinyl to play music.And so you sometimes had to go to Radio Shack and buy a new stylus for your record player.It means 'needle.'The process that looks like a needle is called the styloid process.Okay, sphenoid bone is a very complex bone.It articulates with twelve other bones.We've-- we're only talking about a few bones in the skull.You can thank me for that.Um, but this is a very complex one.Very 3-D in trying to sort out where you might find it.You've already found it.Now it's in fuchsia, hot pink.And you've already felt that, just posterior to this landmark.Okay, so that's your skull.Can you... click on the glabella?Really?Not until I open it up.You can find it anyway, so.Oh, it is open.Okay.So click on that glabella.Easy.Alrighty.Here we go.And I am sure that you have nailed it.Indeed.This is too superior.Yes, the glabella is on the frontal bone, but be sure you get the exact landmark here.Four bones in the face.Here we go.What do you know about them already?And again, remember, you don't get penalized if you don't get these questions right.They're here to think, right?Is there anything-- can you make sense of this, right here, right now, either because you've read about it, or because the words were suggesting something to you.This is just to check in where you are right here, right now.And that's what's important, because that will tell you, 'Yes, I know this,' or 'I have to go back in and learn this.'So, what do we know about the face?Anybody want more time?Okay, still working.Thank you for letting me know.Do you agree with your neighbor?And here we go.Did I label them for you?No.Let's label them.Number one: zygomatic.Your cheekbone here is zygomatic.Where your nose is?Nasal bones, number two.The teeth are rooted into the maxilla, number three.And your lower teeth are in your mandible, number four.Okay, so let's look at that maxilla that holds the roots of the superior teeth, and we've got-- and so it's this purple bone.And what do we see?Here is a frontal view.Anterior face, a transverse view; a transverse view, an inferior surface showing.So your hard palate is your maxilla.It forms the nasal aperture.An aperture is an opening.Any of you who have used a film camera know that you have to set the aperture-- how big the opening is-- to let the light onto the film.And it forms, in part, the floor of the orbit.Your eye socket.Here's the nasal aperture.This opening for the nose.The nasal bones are small, thin bones, inferior to the glabella.Anybody broken their nasal bones in here?Softball in the face?Soccer ball in the face?Okay.Easy to break because they're very thin, so they're going to form the most superior part of that nasal aperture.Zygomatic bones form the anterior portion of the zygomatic arch.So your cheek bones are composed anteriorly of the zygomatic bone, and posteriorly by this bone.This cranial bone, the temporal bone.So there's a process of the temporal bone that meets the zygomatic bone.And here is what you used to call your cheekbone, but now we'll call your zygomatic arch.And I asked you to feel this lateral portion of your orbit earlier, just anterior to the sphenoid bone.And finally, the mandible holds the inferior teeth.And it, very importantly, is the bone that moves when you chew.So when you were learning those terms for elevation and depression of the jaw, you were looking at movements of the joint formed between the mandible and the temporal bone, or the temporomandibular joint, or the TMJ joint.Some of you might have-- have gotten braces when you were younger to adjust the kinematics, or the motions, of your temporomandibular joint.Some of you might wear a bite guard at night because-- so that you don't, um, aggravate your temporomandibular joint.This can be a place of pain.So what else do we need to know here?Well, the mandible has-- it's kind of L-shaped.It has a going-superiorly portion and a going-anteriorly portion.This going-superior portion is called the ramus.A ramus is a branch.So that's the part of the mandible that reaches up to the temporal bone.The anterior-- eh, uh, uh-- and then this is the rest of the mandible.So here's the ramus, and it forms an angle with the rest of the mandible.This is the angle.So you can feel that angle really easily in yourself.There's a mandibular condyle.What do we know about condyles?We've seen them already today on the inferior aspect of the occipital bone.The articular surface where that occipital bone is gonna articulate with the verteb-- vertebral column.So, this mandi-- mandibular condyle articulates-- forms a joint with-- the temporal bone, here.That's the mandibular condyle.So what's this?This protrusion of bone is another process, and it's called the coronoid process.Something to memorize.So the bones of the cranium-- those five bones we learned-- intersect with the bones of the face at the orbits.So our eye sockets are formed by some cranial bones and some facial bones.And I'm guessing I'm gonna ask you to tell me what is what here.So this is an anterior view of a frontal aspect of the skull.And there are some bones here for you to sort out.And you can feel all of these bones.You can palpate, it's called.Feel all around your eye socket.While you're there, give yourself a little massage.Alrighty.How are we doing?We're doing pretty well.Anyone want more time here?Okay, we're still working.This is hard, 'cause you don't have the whole context of the rest of the skull.Okay.So, here we go.And, I'm going to tell you what these are.The blue bone here: number two, frontal, right?That forms the superior part of your orbit.The lateral side of your orbit, number four, we identified as the zygomatic bone.And then, the green bone here, number three, actually is the maxilla.It has-- it reaches this far superiorly.So that inner-- the medial aspect of your orbit, you're feeling your maxilla.So that leaves the yellow bone, number four.That's the sphenoid.And our only clue to that, really, is that it's the same col-- it belongs to this bone.It's the same bone, and we identified that as the sphenoid, just posterior to the zygomatic bone.Feel, feel, feel your way through this course.Alright.So let's put these bones together and talk about the joints.We've got two kinds.The sutures-- one of our 's' words, the easy one.This is the joint that looks like stitching, seaming-- bad stitching, by the way.Suturing these bones together, these are fibrous joints, okay?So we can see the parietal bones here and the suture.And then we have one synovial joint in the skull.The temporomandibular joint.Yes?Oh, that's so good.That's such a great question.I wish I was a neurosurgeon, so I could answer that.I-- I imagine it's-- it's probably particular to each of us in our development.So these bones-- but I don't know the answer.I'm making a guess there.That's a really great question.And maybe you could pursue that as one of your literature reviews.Um, so these bones don't form in the same way that we talked about last time.It's an intramembranous.So rather than endochondral bone formation.So they're fibrous, and then the bones form inside that.So we're gonna see in a moment that the soft spot in children is where these sutures haven't closed completely, yet.Great questions!Haven't been able to answer any of them today!That's great.Alright.So.We name these sutures in particular ways.Coronal and sagittal-- that makes sense.Coronal crown-- be the crown, wear the crown.Coronal suture.Sagittal suture, right down the middle, dividing into right and left like you might expect.Sometimes the frontal plane is called a coronal plane because it is dividing into front and back.But anyway, if you're watching The Crown on Netflix, where's that tiara going, right?Coronal suture.Now, this one posteriorly is the joint between the occipital bone and the two parietal bones.And those of you who have ever used the Greek letter 'lambda' might recognize this as looking kind of like the Greek letter 'lambda.'A fancy 'h,' kind of.So, thus the name 'lambdoid suture,' because it looks kind of like 'lambda,' the letter 'lambda.'So, yes, you need to know those.The temporomandibular joint to shown here, with the jaw depressed, and the jaw elevated.So, uh, let me explain to you what you're looking at here.The-- a bone has been cut away so that you can see this joint.The bone that has been cut away is the zygomatic bone, and part of the temporal bone as well.So when you see something that looks like trabecular bone-- in fact, you're looking at a cut section of a bone here, to show us the-- a cross-section through the temporomandibular joint.So it's synovial.There's a joint space.'But I thought synovial joints didn't have anything inside them!'Some synovial joints have a pad-- a moveable pad in them, called a meniscus.You might be aware of the menisci, plural, in your knee joint.But there's a-- there are menisci-- one meniscus in each, in your temporomandibular joints.And it moves around; it's a-- it's a pad inside there.So you can see the synovial membrane, the joint cavity.And then this-- this pad.In the joint.So it is mobile.One November, late in the season, I was cleaning up leaves in my backyard.It was cold, so I had gloves on.So I had filled one of those paper bags full of leaves, and it was heavy, and I was picking it up.And my glove slipped on the bag, and I punched myself in my jaw.I sufficiently displaced that little pad in my temporomandibular joint that I couldn't close my jaw.So I went to the ER, and anyway, it resolved when the muscles finally relaxed, then it slipped back into place on its own.But I kept getting letters from the ER inquiring about domestic abuse, because, you know, who punches themselves in the jaw.I do!Okay.So, anyway.Some of you, you know-- like I just described, because the jaw is mobile, you might fall on it-- lots of things can happen to this joint, so there can be pain there.Muscle spasms-- like it's the end of those term when you're taking all those tests-- you might have some muscle spasms here that might cause compression in that joint, and some pain.And your dentist helps you with that.Here's a nice picture of the auditory meatus, or acoustic meatus.And, finally, we get a beautiful view of a mandible here.So you can really appreciate, for the first time, this smooth, smooth, articulating surface of this mandibular condyle.And you can also see the coronoid process.But why do you suppose you have that?When you-- when we crush food, when we chew, we have to have muscles that are going to pull up on the mandible, to bring our teeth together with force.So the coronoid process is there to attach muscles to, for mastication or chewing.If you want to see a really big coronoid process, come to my office.I have a ram's skull in my office, and you can see his really, really, really big coronoid process.Okay.So here is a fossil hominid ancestor that was found a couple of years ago in Israel, Homo naledi.And then superimposed on that is our skull, our contemporary Homo sapien skull.So I would like you to practice a little bit of anatomical language, and see if you can describe to me one difference between these two skulls.You can compose together with somebody next to you, if you want.Using anatomical language, how would you describe the difference in these two skulls?Somebody had to, when they found it just a couple years ago.There's no right or wrong here.Just start slinging some of those anatomical terms around.Did I open it?Yeah, I did.You can also say what's missing, here, if you wanna do that.What- what part of the Homo naledi skull is missing?Alrighty.Shall we go for this?Okay.Let's see what we've got.'Frontal, parietal and occipital bones appear to be much larger in Homo sapiens.''There is no nasal bone.'Good.'Location of foramen magnum.'Ooh.'Cranial'-- uh, yeah, we don't-- don't know where that is.'Cranial vault.''Frontal bone is smaller, much shorter, superiorly.''Smaller maxilla.'Excellent.Okay.You are now officially anatomists, okay.Oh, number of the day.Four.Click, click, click.Alrighty?And, here we go.Moving on.Oof!All of that for the skull.Let's move on now to the vertebral column.We're gonna talk about the vertebrae of the spine, and the sacrum and coccyx.So notice that this version of 'vertebra' has an 'e' on the end.So that's how we indicate more than one vertebra.A vertebra is singular, vertebrae-- we don't say 'vertebras.'We say vertebrae.We hang on to the Latin.Okay.So.Look at what the spine can do.It has to both be very strong and very mobile.This is a beautiful design problem which has been solved elegantly by evolution.So we need to be able to allow all kinds of motion.We need to be able to attach muscles to that structure to control the motion.We need to be able to allow for some shock absorption.And we need to protect our very precious nervous tissue, the spinal cord that is going to be housed within these vertebrae.So how does all of this happen?Well, let's get down to business then.We talk about the spine as having four parts.A neck portion, or a cervical spine, that typically has seven vertebra.A thoracic version.This is the part where the ribs attach, and we've got twelve pairs of ribs.So we have twelve thoracic vertebrae.The lumbar vertebrae are lower back, the five moving inferiorly.And then we have some fused vertebrae in the sacrum.Five that have fused together, and so we call that structure the sacrum.And then a tailbone, or coccyx, and notice that there is some variability in the number of little teeny coccygeal vertebrae amongst the population.So.If this is a vertebra from the lumbar region, what part of this is anterior?Think about your own spine.Is there anything on your own spine that you can feel?How might that relate to this picture?Alrighty.Here we go.The bumpy part is posterior.That's what you can feel in your own spine.This is posterior.And here's the anterior portion.Good job.So what do we notice about this vertebra?There's a big chunk of bone.There's a hole.There's some extensions of bone.And then this posterior stickie-outie thing.Okay.I don't know why my slide forty-seven isn't there.Um, I am not going to take the time to go through this.I would like you to watch this on your own.You need to be able to draw a vertebra.And it might seem complicated, given the shape that you just saw.But here's a nice YouTube video that shows you how to draw one that captures the essential elements.But I'm gonna let you do that on your own.You can speed through it.Okay.I know what-- what, what is missing there?Can you see this slide?Does it show the parts of a vertebra?Whoa.Okay, so I'm gonna talk through the parts of a vertebra on this one, because I don't, for some reason, have access to that slide.So the body is anterior.And then posterior, there's an arch of bone.That arch of bone has two parts: the uprights-- we call those the pedicles-- and then the bar that joins the pedicles.And that's called the lamina.Pedicles, lamina.Pedicles, lamina.There are processes that stick out from that, uh, vertebral arch.Sideways-going-one processes, called the transverse processes.They're going transversely out to the sides.There's a posterior process, called the spinous process.That's what you feel.That's what this is.And then what's hard to appreciate from this transverse view of a vertebra is that there're also processes reaching up, and processes reaching down.So the superior processes and the inferior processes are the places where adjacent vertebrae are going to articulate.So the superior, which you see here-- these are sticking out of the plane in a superior direction.They're gonna articulate with the inferior articular process of the next-door-neighbor vertebra.And I hope that's what you can see on this slide.Okay.So, uh, put these landmarks in the correct order, given the image that you have.Can you do this?Do you have-- they're labeled on there?Okay.I'm flying blind here.The pedicles are more anterior.The lamina is more posterior.The spinous process is on the lamina.The transverse processes are closer to the pedicle.Okay, so I'll answer this, not knowing-- okay.There's correct.No.I think I need to just reload this, maybe.Wow.I've gone dark.Okay.Where was I?Oh, there it is.Oh, life is good.Okay.So that's what you were looking at.And you've answered that question.We're moving on.Okay.So.When two adjacent-- or next to each other-- vertebrae articulate, there is a space that is formed called the intervertebral foramen.And that is opposed to the vertebral foramen.Each vertebra has a hole in it.We call that the vertebral foramen.When we stack up the vertebrae, another foramen appears, and we call that 'intervertebral' because it's between two vertebrae.Okay.And here's why we need that space.The spinal cord passes through the vertebral foramen, but it needs to send nerves out to the body.So how do you go from inside the spinal canal, from those vertebral foramen-- how do you exit the vertebral canal through those intervertebral foramen?So those spaces are important, so that these nerve roots can exit the canal, and get nerves to the body.Okay.So those intervertebral foramen are important.Intervertebral foramina-- that's plural for foramen.Okay.I am, like, slow as molasses today, but we'll get through this.So, cervical vertebrae.Seven of them.We've been looking at a typical vertebra so far, but the cervical vertebrae have some specializations that make them very distinctive.We count these vertebrae from superior to inferior.So cervical vertebra number one is most superior, and articulates with the occipital bone.C7 is going to articulate with the first thoracic vertebra.And here is what it looks like.Here is C1 and C2.Isn't that interesting?Those don't look like typical vertebra at all.They're so distinctive, in fact, we give them particular names: the atlas and the axis.So.Can you find the transverse process of this cervical vertebra?It doesn't look quite like the vertebra that you looked at earlier.Alrighty.Let's get oriented here.This is-- this looks like the posterior-going process, the spinous process.This looks like the anterior part, the body, even though it looks small.And these things are sticking out to the side.So I'd put my money on these being the transverse processes, which you did as well.But what the heck is this hole?This-- these holes, these foramina, are distinctive to cervical vertebra.If you see these holes, you know you are looking at a cervical vertebra.Every single cervica-- cervical vertebra has these holes, or foramen, in the transverse process.And we call that the transverse foramen.This is the differential diagnosis for a cervical vertebra.If you see these, you know what region of the spine you're in.Some cervical vertebra have this forked appearance to their tra-- to their spinous process.We call it bifid, forked.Not all of them, though.So that is some evidence-- it's-- uh, it is, uh.For example, this cervical vertebra does not have bifid.So some of them have it, but not all.They all have this transverse foramen.That's important.And what-- why do they have that?We need blood to our brain.And so the vertebral artery passes through those transverse foramen in the cervical spine.Is this an anterior or posterior view?Well, this looks not like the mandible.This looks like the occipital bone.Anybody know what these landmarks might be?I'm liking that I'm seeing some feeling.That's your mastoid process.Okay.And here are the spinous processes of the cervical vertebra.So here's a posterior view.Alrighty.So C1 does not have this, uh, bifid spinous process.It does stay-- all of these have the transverse foramen.C4, mid-region, has one.C7, the last cervical vertebra, does not have one.What do you notice about C7 and the length of that spinous process?Long.Can you feel that?Yep.That's C7.That spinous process at the base of your neck.That's C7.Okay.Uh, so these vertebra change, as they transition from C1 to C7.You can see that here.C1 seems to have-- where's the body?It all seems to have migrated laterally.And C2 has a very particular process on it.Here's C1 and C2 atlas.Atlas holds up the world in Greek mythology.C1 holds up our world of the brain, so it's called C1.C2 is called the axis.It has an axis.It has something called the odontoid process, or the dens, that reaches superiorly and fits inside the axis.And that particular articulation lets us say, 'No, no, no, no, no more anatomy today.'Two more minutes.Okay.So, recognize-- you need to recognize these two vertebrae.This dens-- 'odontoid' means 'tooth.'Looks like a tooth.It's on the anterior aspect of C2.Here's the spinous process.And this is how they articulate.So, the C1-C2 joint allows for rotation in the transverse plane, the 'no' movement, because of this particular anatomical structure.And you can see how it's-- articulates here.It's a synovial joint.Okay.The thoracic vertebrae.There are twelve of them.And what's distinctive about them is that they articulate with ribs.Where do you think a rib might articulate with this vertebra?What do you know about ribs?What do you know about where your spine is?Where do you think these ribs might attach to, articulate with?Superior articular process.Inferior articular process.This is our first cer-- sagittal view of a vertebra.Look at this long and angled thoracic vertebra here.Alrighty.Let's answer this, and you've got it.Here are the two places where a rib articulates with a thoracic vertebra.We'll look for an articular surface on the body, and on the transverse processes.The ribs are buttressed by an articulation with the transverse process.So I'm gonna stop there.You know enough to get going with the vertebrae in lab this week, and I'll continue with this next Wednesday.Be sure and send me any questions you have about finding that Anatomoge Table assignment.