...be my mike is on now.Can you hear me?Okay, okay, good.Thank you.If it doesn't work, stop me.Okay.Good morning, everyone.Welcome to yet another single digit morning.Those who love winter are having an excellent one.Those who hate winter, just wait for it.Spring will come in May sometime.Okay.That's what I've learned since living in Michigan.Don't even think about it until May.Alrighty.So I answered a lot of questions out there, um, about the Anatomoge assignment.Any others, before we get going, because it is due today.Alrighty.You know where you can find me.If they pop up, it's not due until midnight, so I'll keep my eyes on my email queue.Um, alrighty.So let's get going.We're gonna finish talking about the details of some of the axial skeleton features, and then we're gonna move into perhaps a more interesting notion of function of those structures.So let's go and finish our job.We ended up last time talking about features of the cervical vertebrae, and now we're talking about thoracic vertebrae.So these are the vertebrae that are going to articulate-- that is, form joints-- with the ribs.And at the last moment of the last lecture, you identified locations on the thoracic vertebra where those articulations might be fi-- found.So let's name them.We give particular names to those articular surfaces on the thoracic vertebra.They're called articular facets, or faces, or surfaces, that form joints.Thus arturc-- articular.They're found in two places on the bodies of the thoracic vertebrae, and on the transverse processes.And you identified those locations last time.So here's a transverse view, and a sagittal view.And you identified these articular facets last time.Now, why this particular word 'demifacet?'That means 'partial facet.'And we see and a whole one here, and a partial one here.So depending on what level of the thoracic vertebrae-- vertebr-- uh, thoracic spine you were at, the locations and size of these articular facets change.But that's where the 'demifacet' term comes from, when it's just a petite, uh, little facet.And then, the name given to these articular surfaces on the transverse processes are called costal facets.Ah, why costal?You might be thinking 'coastal.'You might be thinking warm beaches, but in fact, without the 'a,' these are 'costal,' not 'coastal.'And it is the root word for 'rib.'So, where the ribs are going to articulate with the vertebra.If we look at thoracic vertebrae from a posterior view, in the frontal plane, it looks kind of like a giraffe's face.So you might look for that with what I used to call 'antenna' when I was a little kid.But I think they're actually horns, not antlers, on the giraffe.And ears, and then the long face of the giraffe.What are these things?These look to me like articular facets, like faces.What articulates here?What are these things, that I used to call 'antenna' as a kid?Superior articular facets.This is where the thoracic vertebra is going to articulate with the inferior articular processes and facets of the next most superior vertebra.Wow, did I cram in a lot of any anatomical language in that statement.So if we look at the whole set of thoracic vertebra, they might look like this.One is most superior.So TI is going to articulate with C7.And as we move inferiorly through the thoracic vertebra all the way down to number twelve, it's looking different.T12 looks quite different than T1, and it's an anticipation of what a lumbar vertebra is going to look like.And here they are.We've got five of these.They're robust, thick.What's happening in the lumbar vertebra?The whole weight of the more superior body is going to be resting on these lumbar vertebra.So they're getting heftier as we move inferiorly in the spine.How do we know we're looking at a lumbar vertebra?It does not have a vertebral foramen, like in the-- excuse me.Yes, the transverse foramen, in the cervical spine.The holes that we find in the transverse processes of a cervical vertebra.Does not have them.Does not have any articular facets for vertebrae, for ribs.I hope it's not gonna be one of those days, where I misspeak.You know you're looking at a lumbar vertebra because it does not have transverse foramen in the transverse processes.And it does not have articular facets for vertebra.I did it again.For-- for ribs.Costal facets.Or demifacets.Okay.It doesn't have those things, so therefore, by definition, it is a lumbar vertebra.They're large!And here are the words that I was struggling to come up with before.But T12 is also kind of being.So that's not the definitive diagnosis.No transverse foramen, no articular processes or facets.Surfaces for the ribs.Five of them, transitioning from L1 superior to L5, which is going to articulate with the next most inferior structure, which is the sacrum.These lumbar vertebrae are massive.They're big.You can see a curve there, a bit.L1, two, three, four, five articulating inferiorly with the sacrum.An anterior view, great big body.And a posterior view: chunky.So here's a former 230 student who was studying abroad in Ghana, and she came across a pile of bones.And she sent me pictures.This is an elephant rib.This was in her set of photos that she sent me.And so I'm going to ask you, now that you're knowledgeable about elephant spines: what part of the spine does this elephant vertebra belong to?Using the rules of human anatomy.Where would you place this vertebra in an elephant's spine?Oh, how about if I make it so you can see it up close?This is a really irritating thing that's happening.Okay.There.Now you got it.Doesn't look like any of the human vertebrae.But, if you impose your idea of a typical vertebra on here, you might be able to find something that is helpful.Let's see how we're doing.Oh, you are here and thinking.Let's go.And you have found... some things here.The ‘cervicals’ have it.And let's talk about it.What do you know about cervical vertebrae in the human?What do they all have?Holes, in their transverse processes.And we call those holes transverse foramen.There it is.So, let's step back a minute and think about what we're looking at here.Might we agree this is the body of the vertebra?This is the vertebral arch around the vertebral foramen.We would call these pedicles.We would call this the lamina.And here's the spinous process.This looks like an ar-- articular surfaces, perhaps for the adjacent vertebra.So this is either superior or inferior.We don't really know.Or maybe we would call it in the elephant 'caudal' or 'cranial,' so that we know whether it's headed-- the surface towards the head or the surface towards the tail.And here's the transverse process with that transverse foramen.That would be my first guess.So.Moving on.Uh, moving, inferiorly, I should say.Here's the sacrum.And in the sacrum, the vertebrae are fused.So it's one structure that we call the sacrum.And then we have some varial-- variable number of cute little coccygeal vertebrae in our coccyx, or tailbone.Anybody in here injured their coccyx?Yeah, yeah.Quite an uncomfortable injury to recover from.Alrighty.So, which of these surfaces is ventral in the sacrum?Which direction is ventral, and then what would you guess-- which surface would you prefer to have as ventral in your own body?And feel free to talk.This is a silent, silent group-- and I think I know why.Not only is it early, but it is really cold.So maybe you're not quite warmed up, literally and figuratively.Okay, so let's see what we've got here.We have a lot of choices over here, and I would agree with that.And the reason I agree with that is that what is anterior to the ventral surface of the sacrum?Guts.Viscera.We want a nice, smooth surface there that's going to be coming into contact with our soft, squishy bowels.Okay.So let's talk about that ventral surface.We can identify holes in plural-- they're known as foramina.And because they're ventral, they're the ventral sacral foramina.Don't you love a name like that, 'cause it tells you everything.If you didn't know this name and you were going to invent it, this is what you'd come up with.You find it on the ventral surface, it belongs to the sacrum, and they are holes.Here are the superior articular processes that we might expect on a vertebra.It's gonna articulate with the inferior articular processes of L5.Then there's something called the sacred promontory.That means that it's gonna protrude.So it's coming out at you from the screen.We'll see that better when we look at a sagittal view of the sacrum.Let's flip this structure about and look at the dorsal surface-- we could also call it the posterior surface-- of the sacrum.And it's bumpy.And it's bumpy because muscles attach here.So we've got a lot of surface area.We're looking now superiorly at the articular facets.The articular surfaces on the superior articular process.There's a sacral canal.There is an opening that is contiguous with the vertebral foramen.There's a crest of bone, a line of bone, down the middle-- that's the median sacral crest.And some ridges lateral to that, which apparently I'm not asking you to be responsible for.The holes on this side-- that is the dorsal furs-- surface, dorsal sacral foramina.And now, also, isn't it-- exposed another articulating surface.This is gonna become part of the pelvis.So your hip bones, which we'll learn as 'coxal bones,' are gonna articulate with the sacrum.And the specific name of that bone is the ileum.Thus, sacroiliac articulating surface.Alrighty.Here is that promised sagittal view.And you can see the sacral promontory, how it protrudes into this anterior space.You can see a curvature, and this sacral canal, which the last remnants of the spinal cord are gonna be found in.And the coccygeal vertebrae, inferiorly.Alrighty!That's the spine!We have done it from top to bottom-- or anatomically speaking, from superior to inferior.And now we're going to talk about the rest of the axial skeleton, which is the ribcage.So we've got the ribs and the joining bone anteriorly, formerly known as the 'breast bone,' but forevermore known as the 'sternum.'So let's start anteriorly.And looking at the sternum, it has a few parts.Something called the manubrium, superiorly, a body in the middle.And then a little xiphoid process inferiorly.Some of you may be able to see your xiphoid process in the mirror if you're particularly lean.If you can, look at whether it is in line with your sternum here, or if it deviates a little bit, to one side or the noth-- the other.Mine tends to deviate.There's something here called the sternal angle, and you can feel your sternal angle.And I'd like you to do that now.So find this notch, this bony notch, superiorly.And then, if you move a little bit inferiorly, that's your manubrium that you're touching.And as you travel down your sternum, it seems to bend.It seems to have an angle.From a sagittal view, it's kind of like that.And so this protrusion, you can feel with your fingers.That's your sternal angle.That's the joint between the manubrium and the body of your sternum.What is interesting about that angle is that it's a guidepost to where we are in the rib cage.If you count down, there's rib one, rib two.So your sternal angle tells you where your second rib is.Now, why that is interesting is because it's also a guidepost to what lies within.So here is a heart and aorta, and here's your sternal angle.So that tells you where the most superior aspect of your heart is, by the way.Valentine's Day is coming up, so you can approach it with an anatomical view.Look how the sternum is protecting the all-important aor-- aorta.Here's your diaphragm, inferiorly.So you can see where these organs are with respect to the landmarks of the sternum.Okay.So interestingly, if this is where the second rib articulates anteriorly, you might expect T2 to be most directly posterior, but it's not.T4.So that gives you an idea that the ribs are going to be angling downward, anteriorly.So that's gonna suggest that the ribs have a slightly complicated shape, in 3D.So.When we put the ribs together with the sternum, we are going to define a structure called the subcostal angle.'Sub,' under.'Costal,' ribs.So this is the angle that's formed by-- by the rib cage.If you have a more obtuse angle, you-- maybe someone has referred to you as being barrel-chested, right?Or maybe you have a more acute angle, and your rib cage is a little tighter.So we've got twelve ribs, and how they articulate with the sternum, or not, categorizes them.The seven superior ribs are called 'true ribs.'No judgment involved in that.But anyway, they articulate directly through some cartilage with the sternum.Any rib that's not a true rib is a false rib.So there are eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve.There're five of those.Seven and five, twelve.How do these ribs articulate?They articulate with the cartilage of rib seven.Here's rib seven.And so these rib-- the cartilages of these ribs articulate with the cartilage of the seventh rib, thus false ribs.Except for ribs-- false ribs eleven and twelve, that don't articulate anteriorly at all, so they're called 'floating ribs.'So the floating ribs are a subset of the false ribs.What kind of cartilage do you think that blue might be?Hyaline!Yes.And the reason for that is because the whole skeletal system starts out as cartilage, so this never becomes bone.And also, it's a good structural cartilage here to have.So that's hyaline cartilage.So there is hyaline cartilage between the anterior end of the rib and the articulation with the sternum.You're happy about that if you are on a roller coaster.Has anybody broken a rib on a roller coaster?Or they-- back in my day, when you weren't strapped in, to roller coasters, your trunk moved a lot.And I had a friend who broke a rib on a roller coaster ride, just from jerking around, and that compression.So the-- the hyaline cartilage, in other words, it's gonna allow for some energy absorption by that cartilage, rather than getting transmitted to the bone.So it gives our rib cage a little bit of resilience in the world of loads.So here are the twelve ribs.I mentioned to you previously that we might expect a somewhat complicated relationship with the sternum.And here we can see how T1 is reaching inferiorly as it approaches its anterior articulation with the sternum.And they're different sizes.And hallelujah, you will never be asked, with a particular rib on a table, 'Which rib is this?,' okay?We'll save that for more advanced anatomy.You can see the floating ribs here, inferiorly.Alrighty.So.Which end do you think is posterior?That would be the end that's not anterior.Knowing what you know now, and what the posterior and anterior ends of a rib articulate with, which one do you think is the posterior end?Wow, you're quick this morning.Alrighty.Here we go.And, those pre-class quizzes make a difference.Many of you have chosen the end of the rib, with all the fancy stuff, as the posterior end, and you are so correct.This is the simple end that's going to articulate with the hyaline cartilage anteriorly.What's all this fancy stuff?What's the job of the posterior aspect of the rib?It has to articulate in two places with a thoracic vertebra, at the very least.Okay.So, let's learn about, uh, the landmarks on a typical rib.We've got a head, a neck, an angle, and a shaft.The head is this posterior-- most posterior aspect of the rib that's gonna articulate with those demifacets on the body of a vertebra.The neck is here, angle and shaft.On the shaft, there's a groove.This is on the medial surface of the rib, medial and inferior.There's a groove there because that's where the costal artery and vein travel.So it's-- they're protected from the outside world by the rib.They just tuck right into that groove.But because there is that groove, the inferior margin-- 'margin' is a fancy anatomical term for edge-- the inferior edge is sharp.So if you pick up a human rib, one surface is smooth; the other surface is sharp.So you know how to orient it, superior and inferior.Uh, tubercle.Here's a bump.'Tuber' sounds like a bump, and in fact it is.And some articular facets here to articulate with the transverse process of a thoracic vertebra.Okay, those are the parts.And, here they are labeled for-- for you.And you can see the articulation posteriorly of the head of the rib with the body of thoracic vertebrae.The costal articulation on the rib articulates with the costal articulation surface on the transverse process shown here, hidden here.Angle.And, here's the sharper, inferior edge.Costal cartilage: cartilage of the ribs.We know it's made out of hyaline.Alrighty.I love, love, love, love, love this view.The transverse view of the articulation of ribs with a thoracic vertebra.What I love, love, love about this view is that you can appreciate the two places where a rib articulates with a thoracic vertebra, at the body and at this transverse process.So there's some buttressing going on here.The ribs' relationship here is strengthened by this bony relationship with a vertebra.Angle, shaft.Alrighty.I have a question for you.What do you see here?A manubrium.The sternal angle.The body of the vertebra-- of the sternum.Here are some thoracic vertebrae.Here are some-- some cervical vertebrae.Some thoracic vertebrae.Something is different than your standard anatomy, in this picture.Can you figure out what it is?Some of you might look like this, in x-ray.I actually don't know what the population distribution of this anomaly is.Maybe somebody could look that up.As a literature review.How are we doing?Let's take just a few more seconds here.If nothing looks strange to you because you are just being introduced to this anatomy, that's fair.But, you are now or-- armed with enough information to sort this one out.Okay.So here we go.There is an extra rib.Yes!Let's find it.So what we learned earlier was that the first rib articulates with the manubrium.The second rib articulates at the level of the sternal angle.So here's rib one.Here's rib two.What's this?Here's what should be rib one.But it does not articulate with the manubrium.It's an extra rib, the so-called 'cervical rib.'So let's count the vertebrae.If this is truly our first rib, this must be T1.C7, C6, C5, C4, C3.C2?Is this what we would expect at C2?With the odontoid process and C1, the atlas.Alright, so it isn't an extra vertebra.It's a rib that is articulating with C7.Some of you might actually have a cervical rib.Okay.Whoa!I've learned what to do here.When life goes dark, we reload ALP.I hid the wrong slide.Okay.So, here's why you discover you have an extra rib, because a nerve might get pinched, or a blood supply might get occluded because of the presence of that rib.And you go to the doctor for those symptoms.And in trying to sort out why you have those symptoms, it might be discovered that you have a cervical rib.We'll talk more about this later.Okay.Cervical ribs.There's an idea for a literature review.We're done with the basics.Let's apply some of this knowledge now, um, to some interesting aspects of the axial skeleton.We're gonna look a development of the skull.Sex differences in the skull.Curvatures of the spine.What are the joints between all of these bones.We're gonna look at motion differences, where you are in the spine, ligaments of the spine, and some injuries and conditions.And then we're gonna talk about where those respiratory movements come from, with respect to those-- that rib cage, that looks like it would not be moveable, so what happens when you breathe.Okay, so let's talk about the skull.We're returning to our skull.We're gonna talk about development and sexual dimorphism.So a structure of the skull, how it's shaped, might differ depending on which sex you are.And let's look at that.So, here is a baby.Uh, an infant skull.Frontal view, sagittal view, and transverse view of these two skulls.On the left is shown views that highlight, uh, the soft spot in the skull.Or here's a fancy word that I might ask you to remember-- I will ask you to remember: 'fontanelle.'That's the anatomical name for a soft spot.And that's where this fibrous tissue that is going to become the sutures hasn't closed yet.So rather than having bone leading up to bone with a suture in between in the developing skull, that fibrous tissue between the developing separate bones of the skull still allows you to feel a soft spot.The most famous one is the superior, um, is-- you find on the superior aspect of the skull.It's call-- called the anterior one in-- you'd think it would be called the superior, but it's anterior, with respect to this posterior one.And that fontanelle doesn't fuse until about two years.Okay.So a doting parent, or a conscientious caregiver to an infant is gonna be trying to protect that portion of the skull, because it might be vulnerable to injury.So the fontanelles are the-- the places in the skull where the skull bones haven't finished developing.Wouldn't this be great for allowing skull bones to keep growing as that brain keeps getting bigger.And they don't fuse, until later.Alrighty.So that's that.Here's partly why children are cute.Because they have very small faces with respect to the size of their cranial vault.So here's a newborn.I think I said it backwards.They have big faces, compared to their cranial vault.As you get bigger, the cranial vault gets bigger and bigger and bigger.So the relative size here, um, can contribute to some of that cuteness.The newborn-- and what did newborns not have?They don't have teeth.So look what's happening to development of the lower part of the skull, the facial skeleton.It's really developing until finally we get the really, really biggest adult brain, and this fully developed facial skeleton as well.Lateral view, newborn, three-year-old, and then a six-year-old, the first grader here.This is also the first grader.So you can see how this cranial vault is getting bigger, especially in these preschool years.Mandible is just-- it's gonna change its shape quite a bit when the teeth start emerging.Let's talk about sex and the skull.If you were to find-- and I hope you never do-- a human skull, in the woods, in a cave.This is the bone-- this is the set of bones you would go to, to determine whether that person was a man-- a male or a female.Even better than the pelvis, interestingly.You can sex a set of bones-- if you're an anthropologist, for example, bioanthropologist, or a forensic anatomist, you would be looking at the skull to determine the sex.Now, that's interesting.So what is different about the typical-- the skull of a typical male, the skull of a typical female?The male cranium is robust.Bigger supraorbital ridges.Now, that's not a landmark that we talked about.Where might that be?'Supra-,' superior to the orbits.You know where those are.So this bony area under your eyebrows are the supraorbital ridges.Bigger, more prominent glabella.Larger mastoid process and a longer mandibular ramus.Okay, so let's go looking for that.Armed with that knowledge, which of these do you think is the male?One of these is a female skull, another a male.Which is which here?Can you use any of that information?Alrighty, let's check in here.Big votes over here.So I agree with you totally.Let's take that off and look at what you might have used for evidence.Longer mandibular ramus.Here's the mandible, here's the ramus.Much longer here, than here.Mastoid process.This one's bigger.What bone is the mastoid process on?Hm-hm-hmm.Here's a hint, here's a hint.Temporal bone.Okay.And glabella, a little bit more pronounced.Glabella's on which bone?Frontal.Thank you.A little bit more robust here than here.And then we can't really see the supraorbital ridges.So, good work.Of course, we don't come as binary, zero and one, male and female.We come somewhere in that gray area.Each of us is on a continuum towards the-- a typical male, typical female.So I like this figure because it shows you the scale from one end to another.Let's look at the mastoid process.Smaller here, bigger here.So, glabella.Flatter here, more pronounced here.So it looks like this ‘five’ end of the scale is likely the more typical male.But of course, we're all somewhere.We might not be on one end of the scale, or the other.Here's the supraorbital ridge.More delicate, more robust.Mental eminence.Chin, more prominent on the male end.Alright.Nuchal crest.Any remembrance of what the nuchal region was?So the nuchal crest would be here.Okay.What about race?Well, physical anthropologists don't really use-- uh, don't really invoke race in looking at the skeleton much, because, uh, there is-- there's so much difference, here, in terms of-- or variability, based on geographic ancestry.So it's really not as evident in the skeleton as, say, something like sex, or what your height was, or what your age was.So it's not very reliable, actually.And in fact, some-- uh, the part of the skeleton that might be most useful are the teeth.And that's not something that's in the scope of this class.Color of the day is brown.Click, click, click.And we will move on.Whoo!It's fun to watch those numbers growing.Alrighty.Good job.Okay.And moving on.Special features of the spine.So, we've learned some interesting facts about the skull, a hint at how the skull grows, those fontanelles, uh, are due to the fibrous connective tissue that is joining those bones.We've thought about sex, and we've thought about race.And really, sex was the big news about differences in the skull.Let's talk about the spine now, and put together those individual vertebrae into a-- a vertebral column.So when we do that, curvatures emerge in our spine.It's not-- it's not just a straight line of vertebrae, but we've got some curving in our spine that's normal, typical, and healthy.So I have labeled these for you with these words.In the cervical spine, it's concave posteriorly, similar as the lumbar spine.So the convex side is anterior in these regions, and the concave side is posterior.You can remember the words, or you can just feel your lumbar spine.And know that its curvature is similar to the curvature in your cervical spine.Thoracic and sacral are concave in the other direction, so they curve in the other direction.So now concave is anterior in these two regions of the spine.How these curves develop follow our movement function.So as a fetus, all parts of our spine are concave anteriorly, right?The fetal position.Concave anteriorly.As we begin to sit up and hold that massive, heavy head upright, some curvature begins to emerge in the cervical spine.It reverses, because of lifting the head.When we stand, our curve begins to reverse in the lumbar region, okay.And we retain that primary curve in our thoracic and sacral regions.But the curve reverses-- that primary curve reverses-- in cervical and lumbar regions.Sometimes these curves-- curvatures-- can become excessive, and in those cases, it can become a problem.So our spine can have excessive curvature in the sagittal plane, in the lordosis direction, or the kyphosis direction.Or our spine can take on a curve in the frontal plane, and that's called 'scoliosis.'Typically, we think of lordosis as an exaggerated secondary curve in the lumbar region.In fact, it can also happen in the cervical.And some of you are reading, you might come across cervical lordosis.But we typically think of this as the lumbar region.This is not a curve that you can make.Question.Yes.Oh, oh, oh, oh.You mean in the population?I-- actually don't know.Another good literature review question.It-- because muscle strength is sometimes involved in that, it might have to do with handedness of the individual, for example.I actually don't know the answer to that question.Hard questions like that are always welcome, and I am-- yeah?Could it be what?Uh, no-- uh, oh.That's a really interesting question, and again, I don't know.I'm gonna talk about a type of kyphosis that that is related to aging.But I actually don't know if there are some spinal anomalies that are congenital, or if there is something going-- I don't know that.So, these curves are not the ones that you can make.I can appear to create lordosis with anterior tilt of my pelvis.That is not lordosis.These are structural.So this is how the bones are placed with respect to each other.This is not something you change with movement.This is structural.This is the shape of the bones themselves.Okay.So.Here is that type of kyphosis that I-- I said I was gonna describe, due to aging.So when-- with aging, and loss of trabecular bone, in the bodies of vertebrae, they're weakened.As bone mass goes away in these an-- uh, vertebral bodies.The chronic load of gravity is always tugging downward on our spines as we stand upright, and gravity is tending to flex the spine.Because of where our center of mass is, and where the gravitational vector is, it's trying to flex our thoracic spine, as that red arrow is showing.So when you combine a chronic flexion load on that thoracic spine, with weakening of the vertebral bodies due to osteoporosis, instead of being nice rectangles, the thoracic vertebrae begin to become wedge-shaped.So if now, you have a bunch of wedges stacked on top of each other, you're gonna get an exaggerated curve.If you are in the grocery store, look-- you might see postmenopausal women with kyphotic thoracic spines.So you might actually look for that.Because it's something that is clearly visible to the naked eye.Or if you visit-- if you're doing any service work in an assisted living facility, you might see this in the men and the women in very elderly individuals.You might notice that your grandparents are getting shorter.As you hug them year after year, they're getting smaller.And you've stopped growing, so it's not you getting bigger.It's them getting smaller.These intervertebral discs lose water.Remember, this fibrocartilage has a lot of water in it, and so they get smaller.And so that is why your grandparents are getting shorter, literally, because these discs are losing height.So that can also amplify this effect.So that's thoracic kyphosis, due to osteoporosis in the thoracic vertebrae.So the wedging-- ideally, this picture should be reversed, because the wedging is anteriorly.They're smaller anteriorly.Okay.How, uh, do they st-- still do this in middle school?Did you do this?Yeah.So I'm shifting now to scoliosis, and this is the curvature in the frontal plane.And this can begin to develop in adolescence, which is why it's in middle school that this test is done.And it turns out that what looks like a pure frontal plane angle, there's actually a bit of a twist to the vertebrae that accompanies this.So if someone has scoliosis, this is what the-- what used to be the school nurse, if schools still have nurses in them-- they're actually looking for an asymmetry in the shape of the rib cage that would be secondary to this scoliosis development.So.Most scoliosis is idiopathic, meaning we don't know what causes it, that 80 percent.Four to eight percent of the population has scoliosis.We don't know what percent of that four to eight percent are deviated towards the right or to the left.Eight times more likely in females, advancing to the point where it needs treatment.If you have a little bit of scoliosis, it's not a problem.But if it's severe, it's gonna compromise cardiopulmonary function-- that's heart and lungs.So summer in the orthopedic surgery units is sometimes called 'scoli' season, because that's when these scoliosis cases-- when the surgeries are done in summer, when there isn't school.Alright.So, here is how your radiologist is gonna determine the extent of scoliosis, with something called 'Cobb's angle.'And if any of you have scoliosis, and if any of you have this particular view of your own spine, you can measure your Cobb angle here.So a line drawn through the bottom portion of the affected spine-- excuse me, did I say 'bottom?'I meant 'inferior.'And the superior portion.And then you measure the angle between the perpendiculars to each of those lines.And that is defined as the Cobb's angle.You can see it here.Thirty-five degrees.Much more than thirty-five degrees.In fact, the radiologist has written on here, or someone has written on here, 'eighty degrees,' of deviation.This is very severe.Here is how you can imagine that your heart and lungs might be affected.So what can you do about it?Exercise is always the first response to scoliosis.If that doesn't work, a brace might be worn, applying force in the direction of these arrows, trying to straighten the spine.And the surgical intervention might require some appliances placed on the spine that can be adjusted as time goes on.So here's a pre-, at fifty-eight-degree Cobb's angle, and a post-, after the surgery has been done.Okay.So we've talked about curvatures of the spine.Both the typical ones and exaggerated curves.Now, let's talk about joints between the vertebrae.Where do you think you might find some synovial joints?Okay.You have found them.Ooh, I'm not gonna leave a water bottle without a lid near electronics.I have dumped a cup of coffee onto my laptop.Okay.So.Ooh!We've got a choice.We've got a joint anterior between bodies of vertebrae.That space is filled with this material.What is this material?Fibrocartilage.So what do we call a joint that is filled with fibrocartilage?Which one of those 's' words is it?Symphysis.Okay.So this is not a synovial joint.Here it is.Good work.So, the facet joints-- the joints between the articular processes: posterior.The vertebral arch joints are synovial.So.Vertebrae have two kinds of joints between them: fibrocartilage anteriorly, and synovial joints posteriorly.Alrighty.And there we go.There's a picture.So we're gonna be talking about these joints.And this one.Cartilaginous, in fact.Fibrocartilage, in fact.Symphysis.Alright.So let's talk first about that symphysis, the intervertebral discs.Here is what they look like in a transverse section.Fibrocartilage-- we're going expect to see a lot of collagen, and in fact, that collagen is arranged in rings around something in the middle.And that's called 'annulus fibrosis.'Rings of fibrous tissue.In the middle of something called the 'nucleus pulposus.'It's a gel, very-- full of fluid, and a lot of water.And we know that that doesn't like to be compressed.So when one vertebra-- vertebral body presses against another vertebral body, that's what's in between.That nucleus pulposus is pushing back.And all of those fibers running laterally are containing-- they're fencing in that gel-like nucleus pulposus.So, here is what's really cool about that.Those fibers are arranged layer by layer in different directions.So when you push down, compress, that nucleus pulposus like a water balloon, it wants to expand sideways.And it would, except expanding sideways stretches those collagen fibers that are fencing it in.So they push back, because they don't wanna get stretched.So that water balloon keeps pushing back on the vertebrae.So the-- those two materials work beautifully together to provide the function we want from these intervertebral discs, which is to allow mobility while absorbing shock and resisting compression.The-- these vertebrae get thicker as you move inferiorly in the spine.And that makes sense, since the load is gonna decrease as you move from superior to inferior.Oh, okay.That's-- I know where I'm headed.Let's talk about these facet joints.I just use the term 'facet joints.'That's what we call the joints between these articular processes.The joints between these faces-- these articular faces, or facets.Synovial-- do we know about a synovial joint?There's space.There's synovial fluid.The articular facets are covered with hyaline cartilage, so they're smooth and slick.No friction as they move past each other.They're fairly flat surfaces, so they really don't rotate each individual facet joint.We would characterize as a synovial joint in terms of its structure.In terms of its function, we're going to put it in the nonaxial, or gliding joint.Those faces are just slipping past each other, gliding.What motion is allowed at these facet joints depends on how the facets are oriented with respect to each other.How they're positioned on those articular processes.All they can do is slide.So how they're oriented will determine what type of motion is allowed at that part of the spine.So sadly, and I'll put in a-- I'll put in an additional slide so that you can read this word and it's not obscured here.The formal anatomical name for these facet joints is 'zygapophyseal joints.'So I will put up an extra slide so you can read that.That might come across in your readings.So don't worry about it here.I'll just add a slide so I won't-- I won't replace this, 'cause that would take your notes out.I'll just add another slide in.Okay, so let's talk about how these facet joints are oriented in different regions of the spine.In the cervical spine, from the sagittal view, they're oriented like this.Obliquely, at an angle.Forty-- about forty-five degrees.So they slide like this.That lets you flex and extend.And they can slide this way.That's going to allow other motions.We want our cervical spine to be mobile, so this oblique orientation helps us to achieve that.Big exception: superiorly.We have motion between the atlas, C1, and the occipital bone.Uh-- those-- tha-- those, we have more cup-like.We had condyles on the base of the occipital bone.So that's a rounded surface, not so, so flat.And the corresponding shape of the articular facet on the atlas, or C1.And that joint-- this design, the structure of that joint-- allows this movement.You get a lot of sagittal plane flexion and extension motion at that particular joint because of the shape of those articular surfaces.C1, C2.Atlas, C1; axis, C2.There's the odontoid process, anteriorly.And that joint is gonna allow rotation motion.So this is going to-- we talked about this before.That allows for an amplification of rotation motion at that pivot joint between C1 and C2.So the articular surfaces between this particular set of bones is not typical for the cervical vertebrae, and so the motions are also not typical.In the thoracic region, the orientation is more like this, where my palm might be the articular-- you might be looking at, in the thoracic region, two superior articular processes with the articular surface on them.So, they're almost vertical, and they face anterior-posterior.So, uh, this is where I do my flight attendant thing, and I really recommend this.This is how I remember it.Cervical, thoracic, lumbar.Back of the plane, wings, first class.I don't know what this would be.But that's actually how I remember the orientation of these articular surfaces.In the lumbar region, there-- they're even more vertical.But now they face each other, anterior-posterior.Oh, I guess it could be that.Back of the plane, wings.Hooray, you remembered.Okay, alright.So lumbar spine, they face medial-lateral to each other.So now let's look-- and here's the orientation.Medial-lateral.Okay.So, that sounds like a lot of unpleasant detail to remember, but it's highly significant functionally.When we assemble the spine-- you've learned movements of the spine as if it's one thing: it flexes, extends; laterally flexes to the left or the right; and it rotates to the left or the right.But in describing the motion of the spine, we talk about motion between individual pairs of vertebrae.Motion segments.C1, C2.C2, C3.C3, C4.We can describe motion between individual pairs of bones, and we call that a motion segment.And so what we're about to learn is that what movements are allowed at a particular motion segment depend on the orientation of those articular facets.The thickness of the spine can amplify how much motion in that direction is allowed.So what do all those words mean?Here's what those words mean.And here's the scary part.I would like you to be able to sketch this graph-- okay-- in the end.By region, not by motion segment.Okay, so what have we got here?We've got each motion segment of the spine.The occipital bone, C1.C1, C2.C2, C3.Moving downward.And then the black bar tells you how much motion is allowed.Is it ten degrees of motion?Is it no motion?Is it twelve degrees of motion?So, given what was just discussed, what plane of motion do you think this might be?Is this the sagittal plane, describing the amount of flexion that's allowed?Is this the frontal plane, talking about how much lateral flexion is allowed?Or is this the transverse plane, showing the amount of rotation that's allowed?So, my hint to you would be to look at C1 and C2.What does C1 and C2 allow a lot of?Must not be that plane, 'cause there's not any motion in that plane, at C1, C2.What motion is allowed at the occipital bone at C-- and C1.What can you do a lot of?Doesn't seem to be a lot of that in this slide.Probably not that movement.Okay.I'm getting looks of absolute disgust.'That's way too hard.'So let's see what you've got.Yep, we know it's not rotation, based on the fact that there's no rotation here.So-- but which of those other two is it?If this was flexion-extension, what would we expect of the occipital bone, C1 motion segment.A lot of motion in the flexion-extension direction.This looks like the same as every place else.So it must not be the sagittal plane.We must be looking at frontal plane motions.So I'm gonna give it to the lateral flexion folks.And here we go.So let's talk about rotation.What do we see?A whole bunch of rotation allowed at C1, C2.So much, in fact, that the bar has a line through it, meaning that it's off scale there's so much rotation allowed.What do we also notice?No rotation between the skull and C1.So those condyles allow the rocking motion, but no rotation.We don't want to wring our own necks, right?So, the first motion segment doesn't allow any rotation.The second motion segment allows huge amounts of rotation.So that's distinctive, in this direction.It looks like we've got similar amounts of rotation in the cervical and thoracic spine.But oops, it drops off here.You can't rotate much in your lumbar spine.This orientation doesn't allow the bones to rotate with respect to each other.So rotation is really limited in the lumbar spine.Let's look at our lateral flexion.I look at this graph and it looks like, ooh, lateral flexion is about the same everywhere except: C1, C2.What happens if you laterally flex?What happens to your odontoid process?It breaks.If you try to laterally flex it, it's gonna break that tip of bone off.So in fact, that's one-- the method of death by hanging, okay?Because it breaks off, and then can damage the spinal cord.So lateral flexion is not something that we want, at the motion segment C1, C2.Life-threatening.Now let's go to the sagittal plane.We predicted a lot of motion at the occipital bone and C2-- uh, first motion segment-- we get a lot of rotation there.Flexion: you can flex a lot at that motion segment.Looks like you can flex a lot in a great deal of the cervical spine.Sorry.And it looks like you can flex a lot in the lumbar region.Where can you not flex?Where you-- where there are ribs.The thoracic spine can do this, and can do this.But it can't rotate.Because of the anterior-posterior orientation of those facets.Okay.So when I say I want you to be able to draw these, I mean: draw a box.Oh, I've got rota-- I've got flexion-extension in the lumber spine.I've got flexion-extension in the cervical spine.Not much here.And an exception.Cervical-lumbar: not much in between.Lateral flexion: about the same everywhere.One exception.Cervical region: rotation.Thoracic region: rotation.Lumbar region: limited rotation.Two exceptions: superiorly.Learn what the regions can do typically, and then learn our three exceptions.Here's one; here's two; here's three.Typical.Yes, yes.No.Yes, yes, yes.No.Okay.That's what I mean when I say you should be able to draw those.Yes.Oh, why the line is there?Yes, that line is there-- that's a convention when you're-- when you're drawing a graph that says-- so the scale there is-- is-- you would expect that to be thirty degrees, maybe, if you extended the scale.But you've got a lot more than thirty degr-- well, I'll go to one side.You've got a lot more than thirty degrees.So if they drew this scale out to eighty degrees, it would compress everything else so much that you couldn't see it.So that line just says it's off scale.There's so much it's off-- it's off the scale.Thank you for that question.Alrighty.So I think I'm gonna stop there.But I'm gonna ask you to do something this weekend.There is something called 'Draw It to Know It' in the module, and it asks you to draw vertebra from the trans-- transverse view and two vertebra from the sagittal view.And I really would like you to try to do that.That's your-- gonna be your best way to-- to learn these vertebrae.And enjoy the bones this week in lab.Thank you.See you next week.