Good morning, everybody.Let's finish up this upper extremity so that we can begin talking about the hip.I trust you can hear me.If I'm too loud, let me know.I'm kind of booming out there; am-- alright.If it's gonna be cold, we might as well have snow.So here we go.Uh, Wednesday, you will arrive in this room and we will have our first exam.I forgot to put a major event on my calendar this morning.Thus, yet another email about changing my office hours.So you can talk to me right after class.We can huddle out there.You can come to my office at one for an hour.You can come to my office tomorrow morning.You can email me.So we'll-- we'll talk today and do things together.I've been alerted to the fact that next Sunday is Super Bowl Sunday, but we will have class on Monday morning.Okay.Next-- at-- and so, what is interesting about Monday after Super Bowl Sunday, is that we will start talking about muscles.So. let's finish up talking about bones of the upper extremity right now.And we left off having catalogued all of the bones.But we had not yet talked about some of the joints in the distal lower extremity.So the wrist, like the shoulder joint, only makes sense anatomically when we're specific about which joint we're talking about.Remember the shoulder?We have to call it the 'glenohumeral' so we know which joint 'shoulder' is, since it's kind of ambiguous.Same thing with the wrist.The joint between the distal forearm bones and the most proximal row of carpals is called the radio-- uh, scaphoid-- radiocarpal joint, between the radius and that proximal row of carpals.And primarily, it's going to be between the radius and scaphoid, lunate and triquetral.And why is that?Because the pisiform does not articulate directly with the radius, because it's perched on the triquetral bone.Synovial joint.What does 'condyloid' mean?You've seen condyles.Maybe you're beginning to understand that 'condyles' mean a rounded, curved surface.And so the distal end of the radius is concave, and that curved scaphoid articulates there.So it's a synovial joint of the condyle type.So it's biarticular.Alright.Excuse me-- biaxial.There's a meniscus.So there's a fibrocartilage pad in the space between-- is this the head or the base of the ulna distally?It's the head, between the head of the ulna and these medial carpals.It appears there's a space because it's filled with this meniscus, or fibrocartilage pad that sits in that space.And we don't see it in x-ray because it's not opaque in x-ray.Forty percent of wrist motion happens between the radius and the proximal carpals.So 40 percent of this, and forty percent of this, is happening there.Where's the other 60 percent happening?Between the carpals at the intercarpal joints, between the carpals.These are also synovial joints.They're gliding; those carpal bones glide rather than rotate with respect to each other, and that 60 percent.So, 'wrist' means two sets of joints, and distributed across all of those joints is where the motions that we call 'wrist movements' come from.So we're this far.What's next?We need a joint between the metacarpals and the distal row of carpals.Metacarpal-- carpometacarpal joints.'CMC.'Again, synovial joints, although not a lot of movement.You can't move your metacarpals on your carpals very much.Limited movement.And here we're talking the rays, these metacarpals.Think of squeezing your hand into a glove.This is what O. J. Simpson didn't do, which was take advantage of any mobility at that carpometacarpal joint, to kind of make your hand smaller to fit into a glove.You can do it a little bit, particularly on rays four and five.This is important.Star this, know this.Find, in your own hand right now, your first carpometacarpal joint.Metacarpals number one, carpometacarpal.Right here, right here.And what can you do there?You can do a lot there.You can circumduct your thumb.That's because of mobility at your first carpometacarpal joint.That's very important.That's how you're holding a pen right now, if you're holding a pen, because of mobility at that joint.So the fingers and thumbs are very different because the fingers cannot move there.But the thumb is highly mobile at the first carpometacarpal joint.Two degrees of freedom.What can you do there?You can ab- and adduct your thumb.You can flex and extend your thumb at that joint.Very mobile.Alrighty, so how are we doing with these thumb movements?Yes, yes, yes, yes.Demo.Star this question.This is also very relevant for Wednesday events.And this-- you can do all of this-- you can do all of these because of mobility at that first carpometacarpal joint.Find it in your hand.You don't need to memorize it.You could just look at your hand.And here we go.And yes, you've learned this is abduction.I'm so proud of you.Hang onto that.That's very important, that you know which way thumb abduction is.Alrighty.And, what we think of as opposition of the thumb is all due to mobility at the first carpometacarpal joint.Now let's move distally.We've gotten this far.Let's move down to the distal end of the metacarpals, between the heads of the metacarpals, and the bases of the proximal phalanges, the metacarpophalangeal joints, which you can find here at the knuckles of your hand.And, for your fingers, these are also condyloid, curved services-- surfaces, synovial joints.And we have two degrees of freedom here, for our fingers.Our fingers can ab- and adduct, and our fingers can flex and extend.Can your thumb do two things at the first metacarpophalangeal joint.Find it in your hand.What can you do there?You can only do one thing: flex and extend.Put this in your hand.You do not need to memorize.Look at your hand.You do-- you don't-- it's already there.You don't have to put it there; you just have to look at it.So once again, the fingers are different than the thumb at the metacarpophalangeal joint in terms of the movements that can happen.Interphalangeal joints.So now we're talking these motions.Also, synovial joints.These are, um, hinge-joints.They have one degree of freedom.They flex and extend.You cannot ab- and adduct at these interphalangeal joints.If you can, you're likely a candidate for surgery.Okay.Um, anyway, we have a difference, again, between the thumb and the fingers.The fingers have two interphalangeal joints.A proximal interphalangeal joint, between the proximal and middle phalanges, and a distal interphalangeal joint, between the middle and the distal phalanges.Okay?Thumb has only one interphalangeal joint because it is missing that middle phalanx.So this is just a bookkeeping situation up here.Dips, pips, and ips.Find them.Don't even need to memorize this.Alrighty.So, knowing all of that, look at this poor soul, who arrived in the ER looking like this.Or ED.We're all working to change from 'emergency room' to 'emergency department.'What is wrong here?And look at that cute little sesamoid bone.So, what do you do when you see something like this?Get oriented.What are the names of the bones?Then you can figure out what the names of the joints might be.And, you are so ready to tell me, and what you're saying is correct.First, this is ray one, the thumb.Interphalangeal joint-- we need-- don't need to specify proximal or distal because there isn't a proximal or distal in the thumb.Alrighty.Good work.That's it.You are now ready for the first exam.Do you feel ready?You can do this.Okay, so let's move on to the lower extremity.And where do you think the lower extremity starts?Where did we leave off with the axial skeleton?How-- how inferior did we get with the axial skeleton?Sacrum, coccyx.No mention of the so-called 'hip bones.'So probably our discussion of the lower extremity is gonna start with these 'hip bones,' whatever they are.So-- oh, I see a word here.'Coxal bones.'Must be the name of the hip bones.So we'll learn all about the coxal bones, and the thigh bone, or the femur.You'll learn to orient them.We'll consider sex differences in the pelvis.We will identify the joints and ligaments, and then learn some peculiarities of the structure of the femur in terms of its angular-- angulation.And we will look at some things that can go wrong at the hip.So here we go.This is what Leonardo was looking at five hundred years ago.And it's remarkably the same as what we would see when we look at it.So we're now we're talking about these two big bones, called the 'coxal bones' and the 'femur.'That's what we'll be talking about today, as well as all of the rest of the lower extremity, if I would get a move on.Okay.So, we talked about the shoulder girdle being clavicle and scapula.So the analog to that, in the lower extremity, are these coxal bones.And they belong to the appendicular skeleton.They belong to the lower extremity.Sometimes the coxal bones are called the 'innominate bone,' which just means that they don't have names.And you'll se-- that will make more sense in a moment.The sacrum, which also forms this now fixed and rigid girdle-- bony girdle-- is actually part of the axial skeleton.And.Here is why the coxal bones are sometimes called 'innominates,' because they're really formed by a fusion of three bones, each of which has a name.So the most superior bone is called the 'ileum.'The bone that you're sitting on right now, your so-called 'sit bones' in yoga class, is actually your ischium.And then anteriorly, coming together up front, are bones called the 'pubic bones,' just where you would expect them to be.When these bones come together, two landmarks emerge on the lateral aspect.The acetabulum.And that's gonna be the cup for-- of your hip socket.And then there's a big foramen called the obturator foramen.So we don't have those two landmarks until these bones come together.However, we do have landmarks on each individual bone that we need to learn.So let's start with the ilium.This is the bone you can put your hands on, easily or not, depending on the amount of subcutaneous tissue that you might have.So we've got anterior and posterior, superior and inferior spines on the ilia.We have a notch-- a great big notch.We have a crest.We have some lines.Gluteal-- you could guess where those are.Auricular service-- surface.This means 'like an ear,' an ear-shaped thing.'Ala-,' 'wings.'And a fossa.So let's go looking.And I guess what I'm gonna do is ask you if you have any idea where these places are.And feel free to have your neighbor help you out here.You can collaborate.What's anterior here, do you 'spose?And how would you know?One of these bones is more anterior than the other.In the pink and the blue.Notches.Spines, 'ala.'Oh my.How are we doing?A couple more seconds, please.Let's get this wrapped up.And here we go.Let's talk.What's anterior?What's superior-inferior?The ileum is the superior bone.The ileum and ischium are the inferior bone-- bones.Pink, here, is the pubic bone.In privacy, you can feel your pubic bone, and you will-- you can kind of imagine this shape while you're doing that palpation.So the-- so this is the anterior side of the ileum.So that's where we would find both the anterior-superior and an-- anterior-inferior spines on the ileum.Can you feel any of these?Yes.You can quite easily find your own 'ASIS:' anterior superior iliac spine.Please do that.Then if you walk, posteriorly from your ASIS, you're running your hands right along this iliac crest, all the way back to the posterior, superior iliac spine.Uh, some of you might have a little dimple here where the skin is very near this bony landmark.You can see that.If not, you can feel it.If you press in there with your thumbs, you'll be able to feel that spine.And this one is buried in musculature, so you can't feel it.If you keep rounding the corner here, this big notch is the greater sciatic notch.The big blade of bone is the whole ala of the ileum.And there are some raised lines.Why do you think they're there?The gluteal muscles-- you all know about glutus max-- gluteus maximus.That's gonna show one edge of its attachment.Okay.We'll learn more about that later.And so if we flip this about, and look at the medial surface, again, like the scapula, the-- the medial surface is going to be nice and smooth.And you can see the fossa on the medial surface, as well as the auricular surface.And that's where-- that's an articular surface for what bone?The sacrum.This is where the ilium articulates-- articulates.So the sacroiliac joint.Maybe some of you have seen a therapist for something gone wrong in the joint between the sacrum and the ilium.I know I did when I took up rowing and was rowing with very bad form, and messed up my, uh, SI joint.So let's move now inferiorly, and talk about the isham-- ischium.And we're gonna move inferiorly and posteriorly.And, much less work to do here.Gotta find a spine.Gotta find a notch.A big something-or-other; a tuberosity and a ramus.We know a ramus is gonna be an extension of bone.We've seen that in the mandible.And so can you please tell me where the-- what landmark three is?Here's landmark three.And you are so there.That's great.You have identified the ischial tuberosity.If you sit on a hard seat and get uncomfortable, that's because the soft tissue between the chair and the ischial tuberosity are getting compressed.That's why IKEA sells so many of those chair pads.Okay.Medial side of the ischium.Oh!Medial side?This doesn't look the same as when we looked at the medial side before, and saw the iliac fossa.This is rotated a little bit.But how do I know it's medial?Because I do not see the acetabulum.The acetabulum is, of course, the lateral landmark.Because that's gonna receive the head of the femur.So we have a spine.That must be the ischial spine.And here's a-- extension of bone, the ramus of the ischium, reaching anteriorly to articulate with the ileum-- excuse me.With the pubis.And the pubis.Last, and least.Very few landmarks to learn here.So we've got a superior ramus.We've got an inferior ramus, reaching towards the ileum, reaching towards the ischium.And what's in between is the body.Oof.Okay, we're not doing a question here.This is that same view.This is a medial view.We're looking at the articular surface on the ileum for the sacrum.Here's the obturator foramen, but we do not see the acetabulum.So we know this is medial.Here's the pubic bone.The pubis: it's anterior.Superior pubic ramus, reaching for the ileum.Inferior pubic ramus, reaching posteriorly for the ischium, and the body in between.Easy.And all labeled for you there.Okay.Do you have mature coxal bones?You didn't when you were a year old.You didn't when you entered first grade.But by the time you left high school, you had a mature-- had mature cocci.Some of you may not have completely finished fusing that ischial tuberosity-- a secondary ossification center on the ischium-- but likely we're a room full of mature pelvic girdles.Okay.So, when we assemble the two coxal bones together with the sacrum, we get a whole pelvis.The pelvic girdle has some landmarks that we talk about.There's something called the brim of the pelvis, the ring of bone that the females in the room might have the pleasure of passing a fetal head through.And we have an angle between the two pubic bones called the 'pubic arch,' just where you might expect it to be.Now, while we're here, let's look at those acetabula.If they were oriented perfectly laterally, we wouldn't be able to look into them.But they're rotated a little bit anteriorly, and that will have a consequence that we'll talk about later.Alrighty.So, what holds these three bones together?We have to talk about some joints.So posteriorly, the two sacroiliac joints are synovial.There's not a lot of movement there, but nonetheless they're synovial.So that our auricular surface on the coxal bones will be coated with hyaline cartilage.There'll be a joint space.Synovial joints.Anteriorly, the famous pubic symphysis, okay?So the two pubic bones have a joint anteriorly that is a fibrocartilage joint.That joint space is filled with fibrocartilage.What is the other symphysis that we've talked about?Where is the other fibrocartilage joint that we've talked about?Hint.Thank you.Intervertebral discs.So the two symphyses that we're gonna focus on in here are all of those intervert-- vertebral discs, fibrocartilage joints, symphyses, and the pubic symphysis.Alrighty.Not much mobility there.However, if you're pregnant, there's a little bit more mobility.Now, before you get alarmed, notice this doesn't happen very often, okay.But sometimes this joint can separate.And, of course, hopefully your obstetrician would have called for a C-section before this.But anyway, let's talk about that.So fibrocartilage is affected by a-- by a hormone called 'relaxin' that gets secreted in pregnancy, and that allows some relaxing of those fibers that are in fibrocartilage.So that allows a little bit of stretch there in that fibrocartilage, which is gonna make the pelvic brim bigger, which could be convenient if you're delivering.So, in a non-pregnant female, that cartilage there's-- there's the size.Half a centimeter.If you're pregnant, that space might get a little bit wider.But still be intact.Okay.Ooh, let's get rid of this picture quickly, shall we?And let's consider the posterior joint.Posteriorly, the sacroiliac joint is synovial, so there will be ligaments, by definition, that reinforce that joint capsule, and they have names.The one on the anterior side is the 'anterior sacroiliac ligament.'The one on the posterior side is called the 'posterior sacroiliac ligament.'Here's the median sacral crest, so we know where posterior-- alrighty.So, can you please tell me: where is the sacrospinous ligament?Let the words guide you to the answer.Sacrospinous.Alrighty.Where have you clicked?And you have clicked on... couple of things.I, in particular, am thrilled to see this cluster here.Because this landmark is the ischial spine.So a ligament from the sacrum to a spine is right here.This is the ischial tuberosity.So this is not the sacrospinous ligament.In fact, that would be the sacrotuberous ligament, from the sacrum to a tuberosity.So there's everything labeled for you.And look, why have a hole and then fill it with stuff?The obturator foramen is filled with this obturator membrane, which is fibrous connective tissue.So having the hole reduces the weight of carting around extra bone.Filling it with this fibrous membrane provides for attachment area for muscles.Okay.So let's talk sex and pelvises.So, on the left, we have a female pelvis.And on the right, a male pelvis.Now the female pelvis has a job to do that the male pelvis does not.So let's consider how the shape of the female pelvis might accommodate delivery of the next generation.So the-- in order to accommodate that fetal head, we've got a bigger space anteriorly-- or, excuse me.This would be medial-lateral in the female pelvis.In comparison to the male, we have a shorter pubic symphonis-- symphysis, and a wider pubic arch.Um, the ischial spines; there's a greater distance between them.Here you can see them protruding into this space more.And then when we think of women's pelvises from the outside, we think of them being typically broader than male.That's because these ilia are flared laterally, rather than being more vertically oriented, typically in the male pelvis.So armed with that information, let's consider the obstetrician's feel of a female pelvis.And here are some dimensions that might be relevant.What is the space, medial-- transversely and anterior-posteriorly?Now we're happy to have a little bit of mobility in that coccyx.We can get a few more centimeters of space by swinging that coccyx out of the way.So the fetal head enters the pelvis at the inlet, and exits at the outlet.So anything we can do to make those spaces bigger will be useful.So one thing that we can do is swing the coccyx out of the way.The other thing is to have the sacral promontory not be as pronounced.So, what do you think of these pelvi-- that was the wrong thing to click on.Okay.What did I need to do here?I needed to open this question and then I need to go back here.So if you were a fetus, which one of these pelvises would you prefer, on your way into the world?And you have voted for...It's a toss-up.Um, here's the female, on the right.Let's talk about why.So, two things to bump your head on while getting born are these ischial spines, right?See how these ischial spines are protruding into that pelvic, um, space?So in the male, those spines face medial-lateral.In the female, they're opened up a bit.So this-- the fact that you don't see the spines here is characteristic of a typical female pelvis.The other thing you see here in the male pelvis is the sacral promontory protruding into the space.Don't see that here.Right?Maybe you chose this one 'cause you saw these great big laterally-facing ala.Remember that this is-- like the skull, there's a continuum of male-femaleness in pelvic shape.So don't be fooled, by that.Here, the key-- the spines, the promontory, and the angulation of this subpubic arch are important.See how broad this angle is in the female pelvis, and how it's more acute in the male pelvis.So those are the key features.Alrighty.So, if female pelvis shape is related to obstetrical demands on the pelvis, what can that help us learn about our ancestors?By the way, I'm just gonna do a non sequitur here.Did anybody happen to see that a new jaw bone was found in an Israeli cave, I think last week?Did you stop and think, 'What's the name of that bone?'Did anybody stop and think?The New York Times called it a 'jaw bone.'Did you stop to think about whether it was a maxilla or a mandible?I did.And anybody who saw the picture, can you tell me which one it was?You saw a hard palate.You saw the bony roof of the mouth attached to those teeth.So it was a mandible.That's what happens when this stuff gets in your head.You're never-- you're never clear of it.You can't read the newspaper without thinking anatomy.Okay.So anyway, back to obstetrical demands on the pelvis.What did Lucy, three million years ago-- how big were the heads of australopithecines?How big were the brains?Well, one way to tell is to look at the pelvis, if you don't have a skull to look at.So here's Lucy's pelvis, and a modern female pelvis, and you can see that they're not the same.We do have some anter-- why am I calling this direction 'anterior-posterior' today?We have some transverse width here for Lucy.Let's look at what this might mean.So, here's a chimp, here's Lucy, and here's a modern human.It looks like chimps don't have any space in their pelvis for chimp births.That's just due to this rotation, so don't be alarmed.But what you see there are: where are these ala?These blades, these wings of the ilia?They're posterior.And if you feel your cat or your dog, that's where you'll feel their ilia-- almost on their-- on their back.The flank, here.Lucy's ala are starting to rotate laterally.And you can see that the sacrum has widened, which is what's giving her more of a transverse diameter on this pelvic space.And-- but for us, you can see even more rotation laterally; a relatively even broader sacrum to accommodate, um, birth.Um, so how important is that?Will that be on the test?If you understand the shape of the pelvis, you won't have to think about that.Okay.So anyway, we've done the pelvis.Let's move on down to the femur.Whoa.We got a long list for the femur.There's a head.There's something on the head of the femur, a fovea capitis.Where there's a head, there's often a neck.There are some big bumps with special names.Trochanters.There's a crest in between the trochanters, intertrochanteric crest.A line, medial and lateral condyles, things on the condyles, medial and lateral epicondyles, a notch between the condyles, a tubercle related to the adductor muscles, and a facet for the patella.Right now, you know what that means.That means a smooth place where the patella is gonna articulate with the femur.So here we go.Here is a femur-- an anterior view of a femur-- and you've got some work to do.And while you're doing that, would you write the number '32' on a piece of paper and hand it down and I'll come around and pick those-- oh, your name, and the number.Sorry about that.It takes her a long time to learn to do something new.That would be me, inserting these slides.We're doing it the old-fashioned way today.Thank you.When you're done with this, you can get back to the femur.And by the way, they finally gave me the data for last week.Or give me half-- whatever you-- if you wanna keep it, give me the whole thing, give me half, whatever you want.Oh, if you are still-- just make sure I get this piece of paper with your name and the number '32' before you leave.Thirty-two.Thirty-two.I decided to move away from odd numbers to even numbers today.Okay.Thank you.Isn't this a silly thing that I'm asking you to do.Oh, little teeny pieces.Good.We're saving trees.Good job.Okay.Oh, half paper.I'll feel so productive when I'm doing this job later today.Thank you.Thank you.You've got your name on it for me.Wonderful.And, thank you.And if a slide shows with the number in it later today, I'll be very embarrassed.I don't remember if I put it in or not.Okay.Oh, this is-- this is kind of fun, for me.Alrighty.But meanwhile, you're still doing the femur.Thank you.Paper.The world of paper.Oh, did you just have to identify one landmark?No.Oh, you only had to-- okay.Thank you.Thank you very much for cooperating with me on this.Okay.Wow, this is gonna take me some time.Okay.Thank you.Fabulous.Okay.It is now.Appreciate that.Okay.Landmark five.Which one of these words looks like that landmark?And you have chosen... 'a,' linea aspera.Yes, a line.A line on the posterior aspect of the femur.A raised line of bone is the linea aspera.Here are our-- the greater trochanter.We can see that from a posterior view.And on the posterior view, we see the lesser trochanter.And a crest of bone joining the two.We saw the medial epicondyle last time.In this posterior view, we can see these rounded knuckles, or condyles, of the femur, and the notch between them.Alrighty.So.Any clue where the distal medial posterior femur is?Alrighty.We have: distal.Ooh-ooh.Me-- uh, proximal is going to be the part of the femur that articulates with the acetabulum.So this end is the proximal part.So it's gonna be down here.What's posterior, the left or the right?We talked about the linea aspera.The line of bone is posterior.That's your clue to posterior.Anterior surface of the femur is smooth.And distally, we know it has to be-- here's the distal end.This side of the femur is the same side as the head, so we know that's medial.We know this right bone is the posterior view, so good work.Alrighty.Femurs have this head and neck, and then it turns a corner, and the shaft is oriented at an angle with respect to the neck of the femur.Unlike the humerus, it was kind of like a cartoon bone.Just one straight line.Femur has this corner, in it.It has an angle between the neck and the shaft.And that angle is called the 'angle of inclination.'I guess you can think of it-- is the incline of the neck of the femur, with respect to the shaft.And not everyone is the same.Population.Mean, 125 degrees is how far-- is the angle of that neck of the femur.But some of us have a smaller-than-125-degree angle; some of us have a bigger-than-125-degree angle.That angle makes a difference with regards to the alignment of your lower extremity.Because the head is gonna tell you where your hip joint is.But depending on that angle, it's gonna tell you what-- when you're standing, where your knees are gonna be, with respect to your hip joints, right?If you have a bigger angle, your knees are gonna be farther apart when you're standing.And when that angle is smaller, it's gonna bring your knees closer together.So of course, you can bring your knees close together or far apart by ad- and abduction.That has nothing to do with this.If you put your feet under your hip joints, this tells you where your knee joints are with respect to each other.So that's-- that's why we're spending time thinking about this inclination angle.So, let's learn these words.These are very important.'Coxa' tells you coxal bone.This tells you an angle somewhere near the coxal bones.In fact, it's on the femur, but it's giving us a general location.'Vara' and 'valgus.''Vara' has an 'r' in it; so does the word 'reduced.'''Valga' has an 'l' in it, like the word 'larger.'Coxa valga: larger than the typical angle.Vara: reduced, with respect to this typical angle, 125 degrees.Greater than 125 degrees: valga.Less than 125 degrees: vara.You need to know this.In this case, the colors of the words do make a difference.Coxa vara is going with this picture.Coxa valga: this picture and this definition are going together.Okay.So.Here are some femora, and are we looking at the anterior or posterior aspects of these femurs?Do you see a linea aspera?So we must be looking at the posterior side.And there is a difference in length.There's a difference in, kind of, robusticity of this linea aspera, and there's also a difference in inclination angles.These are vastly different.So which of these femurs might be associated with being knock-kneed?If someone is knock-kneed, their knees tend to be together when they're standing there.Do you think that would be coxa vara or coxa valga?It's coxa vara.When that angle is acute, that's gonna bring your knees closer together.So this one-- I don't know what these angles are.I haven't laid a protractor on here.But this one is smaller, obviously.A smaller inclination angle than this one.Okay, so you have mature femurs.We all have mature femurs.We all have mature pelvises.We all have mature femurs.We should feel good about that, just by the fact of the sun going around the planet a bunch of times.Alrighty.So the hip joint is synovial.The acetabulum is covered with hyaline cartilage.The head of the femur is covered with hyaline cartilage.Nice and smooth for that head of the femur to rotate in the acetabulum.What the heck is that a little tail there, on the head of the femur?That's unusual.We're gonna talk about that in a moment.Even though the acetabulum is much deeper than the glenoid fossa-- there's a nice bony cup there-- it's deepened even more with a labrum.Just like we saw the glenoid labrum.At the glenohumeral joint, there's an acetabular labrum here at the acetabulum that deepens this socket even more.So you can see hyaline cartilage.You can see the joint space, joint capsule, and ligaments reinforcing all of the characteristics of a synovial joint.So let's talk about this tail.It turns out, for peculiar anatomical developmental reasons, the blood supply to the bone in the head of the femur doesn't come up through the diaphysis of the femur.It jumps across from the pelvis to the femur.And it passes through this ligament, that looks round, and so it's called the 'round ligament.'And so, if something damages that synovial joint, and this blood supply gets interrupted, there's a very particular pathological condition that results.Do you remember that there was this term 'fovea capitis' that was listed under the femur originally?So, if you look at a bear femur, just the bone, you'll see a little pit in the head.That's the fovea capitis.That's where this round ligament attaches.So if this blood supply coming through the round arteries in the round ligament to the secondary ossification center here at the head of the femur.If that's interrupted, what happens?Well, what happens is something called 'avascular necrosis.''Necrosis' means 'death.'So death of the bone, because of no blood supply.'Avascular' means 'no blood.'And so that-- the bone-- those bone cells can't survive, they die, and the bone necroses.Does this look like a nice, happy joint?No, it does not.So this is an x-ray of, um, an-- individuals with avascular necrosis.While we're here, what else can we see?Here's the lesser trochanter.Here's the greater trochanter.Here's the neck of the femur.Here's the shaft of the femur.Look at this thick, cortical bone.There's trabecular bone in the diaphysis of the femur here.We've got the obturator foramen.This is the superior ramus of the pubis.Here's the ischial tuberosity.Okay.And let's talk about some of those other ligaments.So because the hip joint is synovial, there're gonna be ligaments that reinforce the joint.And so, those have names, from the ilium to the femur.This is the Y-ligament, an upside-down 'Y.'Here's a ligament from the pubis to the femur.Here's a ligament from the ischium to the femur.And one of them limits the amount of hyperextension that we can do.And that ligament would be which one, please?And that ligament is the... click, click, click, click, click, click, click.Something here is gonna be stretching when the hip hyperextends.And so that's going to be the-- it turns out, iliofemoral ligament, the one in front, the Y-ligament.And that leads us to ask this question: what's up with this woman?Does she just have a really, really, really stretchy iliofemoral ligament?'Cause it looks like she's not limited to 15 degrees of hyperextension.It looks like she's got 90 degrees of hyperextension.But if we look closely, we will see that she is cheating, to give us the illusion of 90 degrees of hyperextension.Here is her thoracic spine and her rib cage.Great deal of hyperextension in her lumbar spine, and anterior tilt of her pelvis.So, what looks like 90 degrees of hyperextension is certainly more than 15 degrees, but it's not 90 degrees because we've got the illusion here because of her mobility at other joints.Alrighty.Any of you have a grandparent that's fractured their hip?Yeah.If you don't now, you likely will someday soon.That's because with osteoporosis in the neck of the femur, the neck of the femur becomes weakened.If you combine that with elderly individuals not being able to control their balance as well and falling more, we've got more falls onto a weaker structure, and a hip fracture occurs.So knowing what you know now, what is a hip fracture?Is that the coxal bone that's breaking?Is that the femur that's breaking?In fact, it's the femur, and it's the proximal femur, due to osteoporosis of the trabecular bone in this pre-- uh, femur.These details are not important.I will never ask you, 'Where is a subtrochanteric fracture?'All of these pictures are just to reinforce in your mind that hip fractures are typically fractures of the proximal femur.And that could happen in lots of different places on the proximal femur.So why does it happen there?We've got all of this trabecular bone in the epiphysis in that proximal femur.And when that begins to be resorbed and you lose bone mass in the-- in those trabeculae in the proximal femur, the bone gets weaker.The bone is lost in a very predictable fashion.And so that the amount of osteoporosis that an individual has can be graded by how much trabecular bone shows up in x-ray.So, this is worst.This is what it stopped-- so these are the-- the typical lines of trabeculae, and they stay start disappearing in characteristic ways.And it's so characteristic, the-- the severity of osteoporosis can be graded like that.Again, are these details important?No.What's important this is explained to you-- the mechanism for why hip fractures occur, or rather, why the proximal femur is vulnerable to fracture, because it's losing strength, because it's losing this trabecular bone with osteoporosis.So when that happens, sometimes a prosthesis, an endoprosthesis, a hip replacement is called for.That might happen secondary to a fracture, or with osteoarthritis of this hip joint, and a very, very, very painful condition.So much so that you're willing, basically, to have the proximal end of your femur amputated and replaced with an endoprosthesis.I talked earlier about the orientation of the acetabulum.And you might have expected that it would be directly lateral, but we've seen that it's rotated a little bit anteriorly.So if we look at a transverse view of a section through a coxal bone, this is what the typical pelvis might look like.So let's get oriented.This is the pubic ra-- ramus.Not that you would know it, but it's labeled here for you.So this is anterior direction, and here's posterior.Here's the ischial ramus, so that's posterior.And if you draw a line across the opening of the acetabulum, it's typically rotated a little bit anteriorly, or it's anteverted.So that's our slightly anterolateral orientation of this acetabulum.Some people, however, have retroverted acetabula, meaning that they're slightly oriented posteriorly.So what are the consequences of that?Well, uh, let's just-- before we get there, let's look at some scans.So here's an MRI.A lot of musculature around our hip joint.Here is coxal bone.Here is the head of the femur.And here's the acetabular opening.And because this is conveniently labeled 'front' for us-- although we might label it 'anterior,' you can see that this is oriented slightly anteriorly.It's slightly anterior-- anteverted, as we just saw.Here is a ret-- slightly retroverted acetabular opening.So, in fact, some people actually have this.Here's some evidence for that statement.Now, what's connected to the head of the femur?The neck.So if you were to medially rotate your femur, what does that mean?It means the neck of the femur is swinging anteriorly.So, if you have retroverted acetabular opening, what's gonna happen?The neck of that femur is gonna bump against that structure.That might cause a problem.And in fact, that's what that looks like.So here we have a... acetabulum.Here's the head of a femur.Neck of the femur.And here's a little indent in the head of the fever-- femur.That's the fovea capitis, where the round ligament would attach.And with medial rotation, this neck is swinging anteriorly, and you can see that it might impinge on that-- or bump into that anterior acetabulum.If you have a lot of acetabular coverage here, you can see it-- as in a retroverted acetabulum, you can see that there's actually gonna be contact.The opposite of this scenario is true also.What if you have a shallow acetabulum?What are you gonna be at risk for there?That's another question.So, here is the kind of damage that can happen with a retroverted acetabulum.You can see that you have actual fracture in the coxal bone there.Or, wear and tear and some bone spurs laid down.So there are consequences to us having congenital differences in how our skeleton manifests in our individual phenotype.Whoa, did I get through a whole lecture?And we are-- we still have ten minutes to spare?Is that some kind of a record, on my part?I think it might be.Okay.So anyway, we have time!You can ask me questions about the exam.If something came up for you over the weekend, I'll just hang out here in the classroom for a few minutes.But otherwise, you have time.You have fifteen minutes to completely enjoy being unscheduled for.Okay.