230.Let's go.Let's finish what we need to finish today regarding the bones of the shoulder and then moving distally into the forearm.But I'm going to start the day with some announcements.Number one: I am out of town at a conference on Friday.Therefore, I cannot be here for office hours on Friday.So I am going to add extra office hours on Monday and Tuesday before the exam on Wednesday.Now, what do I do to calm myself down when I think, 'Oh, to miss the office hours before the exam.Oh, what a terrible thing I am doing.'I calm myself by noting, number one, my office hours attract very few students, to date.And number two: I think that probably after the weekend, you might have questions for me, because that might be when you're really attending to what's going on, on the exam.So that's what I do to calm myself.If you really have burning questions this week, of course, email me.And I will answer them as promptly as I can.But look for announcements about when office hours will be next Monday.Number two: I told you that I would rearrange slides to-- the couple that had jumped out of order in the last lecture, I said, 'Oh, I'll just move them.'And then when I was leaving class, I thought, 'Oh dear, I don't know how Active Learning Platform will deal with that.'Because now, if you might have noticed, if you click on a slide, it goes to the place in the video where I'm talking about that slide.So I don't know what would happen to that synchronicity between the video lecture and this-- and slides and notes, if I move things around after the lecture.So in fear of screwing things up, I just left 'well enough' alone on that.Okay.Number three: do you have any questions right now about the format of the exam, or how to study for it, or what will be on it, in anticipation of some weekend time devoted to this task?Yes.The practice exams do not exist because I hope that the pre- and post-class quizzes, the questions in the lectures will be sufficient to-- to give you a clue.As to what might be coming on the exam.So those are my proxy for practice exams.Thank you for asking that.Anything else?I got a quest-- oh, yes.That would be a 'no.'And I've heard that now.And I haven't gone back and looked at the quizzes to see where the offending question might be.Do you have an example, off the top of your head, you could share with me?Oh, okay.The quizzes are there to direct your attention, so I'll go back and look at that.I won't pull questions from the quizzes.I will pull questions from lecture that-- so that's on my 'to-do' list, to see where there might be a disconnect.Yes.Okay, so I suspect that's the case.And so those-- those quizzes are really on not what happened in lecture, but in that module related to the topic.So it could be just a lack of sequencing integrity.So I'm-- I'm hoping-- I'm thinking that's the case.Yes.Yeah.Alright.I will find those questions and respond directly to that.So thank you for bringing that to my attention.So another point I want to make is about the issue of questions.I, for one, love questions.You cannot ask me a-- a question that will make me think less of you for asking.When a-- when students have questions, I think: number one, yay!They care enough to formulate a question.Number two: they're engaged enough to ask a question.And I will never, ever, ever think a question, uh, it will never make you vulnerable for a negative opinion from me.In other words, ask any question that pops up.I appreciate your questions very much.Yes.54.Isn't that an odd number to get behind.But on your Scantron sheet, you know, the-- the question-- there're six questions on a page.So that's how I ended up with-- with 54.And when I design the exams, I tend to distribute those questions over the modules that it will cover.So the basic concepts have a lot of movements.I may skimp on that.But generally I do try to spread them out somewhat evenly over the modules.And of course, if you have more on Monday, we'll talk about it again then.I will not finish the bones and joints of the elbow, wrist, and hand today.But I'll be able to finish that up rapidly on Monday, and I would say 98 percent of the material on the exam will be covered by the end of today.Alrighty.Well, there's a good way to start the day.Let me reload.Oh, that might explain it.My internet went away while I was talking.You might have noticed that participation points for Monday have not yet been posted.That's because the data are a little bit slow arriving from Echo360.But not to fear; it will be there as soon as I possibly can get it.Okay, here we go.So, any clue which of these images shows the inferior aspect of the clavicle.Do you remember anything about the clavicle from last time?When in doubt, feel your own clavicle and see if that-- without memorizing anything-- can help you answer this question.Use your body as the best study aid, question-answering device that is fair game to bring to exams.Alrighty.Here we go.And you have chosen either one or the other.Now, what do you know about the superior aspect of the clavicle?Nice and smooth, unless you've broken it and you have a bump.Uh, the superior aspect is smooth.This is nice and smooth, so the inferior aspect is the one with the conoid tubercle and this subclavian groove, okay?Now.Now that you know that this is inferior and this is superior, is this a right one or a left one?Again, your fingers can help you answer that question.Do you know anything about the lateral aspect of this clavicle?We talked about a certain landmark being lateral last time.That can help you with the medial and lateral and you know superior-inferior.So knowing those two things, then, you can do some fancy spatial orientation.Oh, I think I need to open the question.Here you go.Right or left.Fifty percent chance of getting it right.This, by the way, in my mind, is the hardest bone in the entire class to orient.Alrighty.So.Are we going to do better than 50-50?Yeah.And the majority of the class is incorrect.Okay.So let's talk about this.Uh, this is the superior aspect, and this is the inferior.What do we know about the inferior?The conoid tubercle is lateral.So since this is just flipped 180 degrees, this is the lateral aspect.And so, if you hold your computer up to your body, you'll find that-- and rotate the screen, you'll find that the convex-- the broad convex curve is more medial.And so that's gonna match your left clavicle.So I really suggest that you do ro-- you know, pick up your laptop and rotate it around, and try and match that superior view to your body.Hard question.The point of the question was to get you to remember that this conoid tubercle is lateral.That's gonna help you orient this bone.Okay, now that you're totally depressed, let's move on.Ligaments reinforce the glenohumeral joint.Remember, this is the name that we gave to the shoulder joint because the humerus articulates with the glenoid fossa on the scapula.So here are some of the names, a-- the ligaments running from the scapula, near the glenoid fossa to the humerus, are called the glenohumeral ligament.We can think of this as reinforcing the synovial joint, that is the glenohumeral joint.There's an additional-- additional one.A piece that runs from the coracoid process of the scapula over to the humerus.While we're here, notice that there is what looks like a tendon that lies in that intertubercular groove.It turns out that's part of your biceps muscle.And we're gonna be talking about that tendon and its relationship to a particular injury of the glenohumeral joint a little bit later.But now, just notice how convenient it is that that tendon has a place to live.It lies right in that intertubercular groove.Alrighty.So, let's name some other ligaments and... pick one and name it.Bless you.Alrighty.Let's get those names down so we can move on.And here we go.Acromioclavicular, acromioclavicular-- clavicular is number two.Sternoclavicular, shoulder ligament.Okay.Some of these are more specific than others.The point of this is to emphasize to you that you don't always have to memorize.You can think your way through anatomy.If you know the names of the bones or landmarks, you already know when you see a ligament attached to it, what it's called.So someone pointed out that-- someones-- that number two was the acromioclavicular ligament.Do we like that name?Yes, because it runs from the clavicle to the acromion.Similarly, number one runs from the coracoid process to the clavicle.So 'coracoclavicular' might be a good name for that one.And here's a ligament that runs from the coracoid process to the acromion, or the coracoacromial ligament.And if we look at the names, here they are.A caveat: the coracoclavicular ligament has two parts.And those have names that you do have to memorize, because the bony anatomy won't get you all the way there.One portion of it is called the 'trapezoid.'The other part is called the 'conoid.'Is there any clue, in the naming of these ligaments, where they might attach?The trapezoid must be trapezoid shaped.What does the-- where do you think the conoid ligament might attach?Do you recall that there is a conoid tubercle on the inferior lateral aspect of the clavicle?Uh-huh.So that's where the conoid ligament attaches.On the conoid tubercle.'A' meets 'A-prime.'Shoulder separation occurs when the clavicle separates from the scapula.That means that those ligaments that you just named tear, because they're holding the clavicle to the scapula.They're keeping that acromioclavicular joint intact.So, you can see on the left, uh, some separation and even more separation here.And you can also see a con-- a cone of bone.There's the conoid tubercle, on the inferior lateral aspect of the clavicle, and you can see the coracoid process here.Anybody in here experienced this?All our shoulders have never been separated in this room?Good for us.Okay.Alrighty.So, how does that happen?A force-- this big arrow is showing you the direction of force applied.So one way to do this is to fall so that the ground contacts the scapula in this direction, if you fall on your shoulder.And these little action arrows are showing where the strain occurs.So in this case, the acromioclavicular ligament is strained.It can be strained so much that it actually tears.Once it tears, then the coracoclavicular ligament can be stretched.And it can be stretched to the point where it tears.So now the clavicle is-- is quite separated, entirely, from the scapula.Now, if the blow comes in this direction, ugly things can happen so that the clavicle displaces anteriorly-posteriorly.In this case, posteriorly.Huge separation here.Or here's-- here's something that hopefully will involve anesthesia quickly.The clavicle gets stuck, underneath the coracoid process.Okay.So this is increasing severity of this shoulder in injury.Notice here, I've resorted to abbreviations: 'AC,' 'acromioclavicular;' 'CC,' 'coracoi'-- 'coracoclavicular' ligament.Alrighty.So let's move on to other aspects of the-- in this case, the glenohumeral joint.What are we looking at here?This is a sagittal view of the lateral aspect of the glenohumeral joint.You might remember that we saw just the bare scapula from this view last time.Here's the coracoid process and acromion.And here's the glenoid fossa.In this view, you can see the hyaline cartilage that covers the glenoid fossa.So it's nice and smooth, when the head of the humerus articulates with it and needs to move with respect to it.But, what we haven't seen before, is this rim of fibrocartilage that deepens the, uh, glenohumeral socket.Remember, we talked about how shallow that glenoid fossa is, and so what's gonna hold that rounded head of the humerus against the fairly flat glenoid fossa.Well, there is a rim of fibrocartilage called the 'glenoid labrum' that is going to help with that.So it's an additional structure, as part of this synovial joint.You can also see here, the reinforcing ligaments that we've-- we talked about, just moments ago.Let's talk about challenges to that glenohumeral labrum.What can go wrong?What can damage that structure?Well, here you see a guy, and he's pitching, and he does this movement in preparation for a pitch.And what I'd like you to do is to tell me the position of the glenohumeral joint.What does the glenohumeral joint do?It flexes-extends, it ab- and adducts, and it medially and laterally rotates.So which of those movements has occurred to get his glenohumeral joint into the position shown here?So that arrow is indicating that his forearm is rotating backwards.If you do this movement, it feels somewhat awkward and maybe even painful.What the heck is going on there?Okay, so it looks like you pretty much made up your minds.Let's look at what you had to say.I see 'hyperextension.'I see a lot of 'extensions.'I see 'external rotation.'Do I see the word 'abduction' anywhere?So-- oh, 'abduction' and 'lateral rotation.'Nailed it.Okay.So let's talk about what's going on there.Not extended at all.To get in that position, you would abduct.So, let's see.What I'll do is flex my elbow and abduct.Now, how do I get that forearm to rotate in the direction of the arrow?I am externally-- or laterally-- rotating.Medial, lateral-- put your-- maybe an easier way to think about this: flex your elbow, laterally rotate, and then abduct.And there you are.Okay.So this is what pictures do.Abduct and laterally rotate.Then they're going to, of course, flex.When that happens, look what's going on, skeletally.Here is something like anatomical position.Here's what happens in abduction.Look at where that greater tubercle with abduction is, with respect to the acromion.So anything soft and squishy that might be in between the greater tubercle and the acromion is at risk for getting pinched in this position.And we'll see later that there's one particular muscle-- the muscle that is very important in con-- in generating abduction-- can get pinched there, and cause some problems.Now-- so, decrease in subacromial space is called 'shoulder impingement.''Impingement:' pinching, squeezing.So, that's happening.And the other thing that's happening is the pitcher is going to rapidly flex that arm.Biceps brachii is gonna be involved in that movement.So here's the biceps tendon lying in this intertubercular groove.And look where it attaches.Over the top-- uh, proximal here, to the greater tubercle, and lying in this subacromial space to attach to the scapula at the supraglenoid tubercle.Ooh.So what happens in this position of abduction and forceful activation of the biceps, can be something called the 'SLAP tear.'Superior labrum is what gets torn, and it gets torn in the anterior-posterior direction.And that's because biceps is pulling on this glenoid labrum.So this is an injury-- do we have any pitchers in here who might have experienced this?So this is the so-called 'SLAP tear.'You need to remember what 'SLAP' stands for.And if you-- and then you'll know what-- everything you need to know, basically, about this injury.Here's a former 230 student who was a pitcher, and here are some images provided by his orthopedic surgeon.So 'G' here means, uh, 'glenoid fossa' of the scapula.'H' means 'humerus.'This is inside the synovial joint.'L' means 'labrum.'Here's the anterior direction, and posterior.And there's the anterior-posterior tear of the labrum.And you can see his biceps tendon attaching there.So over here, we can see the tear, some of the surgical steps, some suturing, etcetera, in the endoscopic surgery.Not only can we tear that labrum.But the head of the humerus can completely depart from the glenoid fossa, and we call that a 'dislocation.'So typically, that happens in the anterior direction.It can also happen inferior and posterior.So let's-- let's figure out how this image helps you understand this is anterior.In this case, the head of the humerus is not articulating with the glenoid fossa, but in fact, is now tucked underneath, anteriorly, that coracoid process.Ouch.It could dislocate inferiorly and get stuck underneath the glenoid fossa.Or it could dislocate in a posterior direction, and get stuck, posterior to the glenoid fossa.How are we doing with our breakfast so far?Since we've had a lot of-- a lot of injury early-- early in the morning.So when you fall on the ice and slip backwards, and the force of the ground when you catch your fall, might push that head of humerus anteriorly, and dislocate it.What ligaments might get stretched, torn, in a dislocation situation?What are the ligaments that hold the head of the few-- humerus close to the scapula?Glenohumeral ligaments.Alright.Let's talk about this so-called scapulothoracic joint: movements of the scapula on the thorax.We've named these movements before: elevation-depression, protraction-retraction, and upward and downward rotation.And these are the movements that we've named.But now, you know that those movements are occurring at actual joints, particularly the sternoclavicular joint and the acromioclavicular joint.And the acromioclavicular joint might be doing a little bit of gliding to adjust along the way.Here's a picture of upward rotation, and I'm putting this here so you can figure out why this movement has been named 'upward rotation.'I couldn't tell you this before, because you had no idea what the glenoid fossa was before.But the upward rotation means that the glenoid fossa is rotating so that it faces upward.Or the glenoid fossa is rotating so it faces more downward.Thus, upward rotation, and downward rotation, okay, named for where the glenoid fossa is going.Upward rotation faces upward.Now, why is there such a thing called 'rotation of the scapula?'Well, we've talked about how that head of the, uh, humerus is big and round, and the articulating surface on the scapula is-- is pretty small.And we see that there might be a limitation in how much the humerus can abduct on the scapula because of that acromion superiorly.So that's gonna limit how much abduction you can have.But we might want to reach for something, for our hat up on a shelf, right?So we need more mobility than is allowed by the bony shape at-- at that joint.So, what's the solution?We rotate the whole system.The whole scapula moves, so that to get to what appears to be 180 degrees of abduction at our glenohumeral joint, really, what we've got is about 90 degrees.And then the uh-- uh, the scapula rotates like a-- we've got 60 degrees of-- of upward rotation of the scapula, combined with 120 degrees of rotation of the humerus on the scapula to get to our 180 degrees here.So really, the scapula and the humerus move in kind of a rhythm.The scapulohumeral rhythm.If you look here, it's showing how that's happening.We've got about twice as much movement at the glenohumeral joint as scapular rotation here.The point of all of this is to say there's a coordination in the motions of these bones.And if something disrupts the ability of the scapula to move, say, for example, a shoulder separation, you lose a whole bunch of function at your glenohumeral joint because you can't do this.So, you've seen people walking around in slings.It's likely healing a shoulder separation.And, uh, you can't-- you can't do much when that-- there's nothing wrong with the arms of those individuals.But because this is disrupted, a lot of function is lost.Ooh, so we're done with the shoulder, and we can move on to the distal upper extremity.Questions?Okay, here we go.Oh, a lot of bones: radius-ulna, carpals, metacarpals, phalanges.A lot of bones, distally.We'll talk about the elbow, carpal tunnel syndrome, another baseball-playing injury followed by surgery, named after the first one to get that surgery.And then we'll talk about movements of the upper extremity.So here's where we are.We've talked about the scapula and clavicle as the 'shoulder girdle,' the scapula and humerus as the 'glenohumeral' or 'shoulder joint.'Now we're going to talk about the bones here, and how they work together to form the elbow, wrist, and fingers.So, we have to name these two bones: ulna and radius in the forearm, and then all of these bones in the wrist and hand.This word 'digits' sometime-- is convenient, because 'fingers' typically refers to these four digits, and the thumb as the other digit.So the word 'digit' is generic for these things.'Fingers' typically means the digits that aren't the thumb.Okay.Ooh, some words here.Brachium, this region, uh of the-- the upper arm is the brachial region.Biceps brachii, triceps brachii, muscles of the brachial region.Then the forearm: antibrachium.And the wrist bones are called the carpals, metacarpals, and digits.Alright.So, feel your ulna.So you have a-- we did this last time.Elbow bone.Walk down your elbow, and where you end up, you end up on the pinky side of your hand.That is your ulna.Right there.You can feel it quite easily.So if that's the case, do you think this is an anterior or posterior view?You can answer it in, like, sixteen different ways now, because you know what the scapula-- which side is anterior and posterior on the scapula.But what you just did was travel here, to the pinky finger side of the hand.Okay, so let's talk about that ulna.It has a couple of processes: three.Notches: two.One big tuberosity, and a head.So let's go find those.And I think that you can do this.Let's find out if you know anything specifically about the ulna at this point.How much of this can you sort out just by knowing what these anatomical terms mean?We're still working.Little bit more time.Alrighty.Make some clicks.Let's finish this up and be on our way.Okay, here we go.And there're your answers, and here are the names.So, this thing that you used to call your 'elbow bone,' now you'll call your 'olecranon process.'This bump on the posterior aspect of your wrist on the pinky finger side, you'll now call the 'ulnar styloid process,' a little needle-shaped, stickie-outie process of bone.On the anterior side is where we'll find the coronoid process, and an ulnar tuberosity, distal to it.Two things to note: the ulnar head is distal.The humeral head was proximal, so the ulna stands on its head, there, in the forearm.The head is distal, and the trochlear notch-- hmm, you might recall the trochlea on the distal humerus.Hmm.The trochlear notch fits the trochlea.This is where the ulna articulates with the humerus.The trochlea of the humerus.Alright.So, that's what I just said.Here's an anterior view.Posterior view.So, here is the trochlear notch of the ulna fitting beautifully into the trochlea of the humerus.This is the medial epicondyle.So does that match up?That suggests that the medial bone of the forearm is the ulna, and in fact, the pinky side of your hand and that ulnar styloid process is medial, in anatomical position here.So that kind of makes sense.And then posteriorly, that great big knobby olecranon process fits right into the olecranon fossa of the distal posterior humerus.Radius is much more simple.It has a head, a neck, a radial tuberosity, a radial styloid process, and an ulnar notch.So let's look at it those.And, you just need to tell me where the head of the radius is here.One, two, three, or four.And after you've done that, is this anterior or posterior?What do you know about the ulna?Is this an anterior or posterior view of the ulna?Anterior.You're looking into the trochlear notch.That's anterior.You're not looking at the olecranon prossa-- process.Okay, so, let us move on.You found the head.Indeed you have found the head.The head is proximal on the radius.So the radius and ulna, even though they articulate with each other, their heads are at opposite ends of the forearm.So the-- where there's a round head, there's often a neck in close proximity.And here is the radial tuberosity.And finally, the radial styloid process is distal.On the thumb side of the hand, and always on the thumb side of the hand.So what we haven't seen here are these notches.So the ulnar notch-- excuse me.Okay.I won't bother you with that.So we have a radial tuberosity on the radius, and an ulnar tuberosity on the ulna.And those are gonna be important sites of attachment for some big muscles involved in elbow flexion.We've seen this picture before.We looked at it with respect to the ulna.Now we can look at the radius.The head of the radius articulates with the capitulum of the humerus on the lateral side.Anterior view, posterior view.Isn't this interesting?The head of the radius seems to be flat.So the roundedness is on the distal humerus, but the, uh, radius-- radial head is flattened.Ulnar notch, radial notch.So those-- the notches are where the heads articulate with the other bone.So there's a notch on the ulna for the head of the radius, and there's a notch on the radius for the head of the ulna.And, I'm gonna back up here.Their named for the bone that will articulate with them.So there's an ulnar notch on the radius for the head of the ulna to articulate with.Here's a question for you.Now that you know the shapes of the adult bones, which of these two people are older?Is older.Which is older.And, we've got some answers, and you think it is the right person.Sure enough, the secondary ossification centers have hardly appeared in this individual on the distal ends of these long bones, the ulna and the radius.Here you can see that they're getting closer to being closed.There's a hyaline cartilage.Um, material, here and here.You can recognize the radial styloid process, the ulna styloid process.This is not an adult individual.What is this thickening here?Actually, that's the callous that's formed.The bone is still in-- there was a fracture here, and it's healing.So that'll go away when this bonus is fully healed.Good work.Okay.And do you have mature ulnas-- ulna and radiuses?Um, yeah.Twenty years old is maybe when the radius, uh, that epiphysis finally closes there.So likely, there's maturity in the ulna and radius in this room.So college, we'd say.Here's a question that you might ask.'Do I have to know the specific ages of when these bones mature?'No.First grade?Elementary school?Middle school?College?I need ballpark. A ballpark understanding of skeletal maturity in here.Oh.Here's a case study image from a former 230 student.This happened, and he tried to open the car door to get out of the car, found he couldn't, and then passed out.And then didn't even know about these x-rays until he went looking for his case study.So, what bone did he break?Yes.Uh, uh-- the lat-- which rota-- what?What?I'm sorry, the 'what' x-ray?The left lower.Did they rotate it?He-- he was not conscious at this point.Yeah.No, they weren't manipulating his arm when he was in a state that he knew this was happening.Yes.Thank you.We're not looking at cruelty here.So this actually might have been in-- when he was in the OR.So what have you decided?You have decided the radius.And good job, because you have recognized a couple of things.The radius is much bigger at its distal end than the ulna.The ulna is this slender little bone, distally, as it approaches the wrist bones.You may also have noticed that the broken bone is the one on the thumb side of the wrist.And that's where we find the radius.Good job.All right, uh, so, now, remember when you learned, way back when, radius and ulnar deviation?Now you have some firm ground to stand on, because ulnar deviation-- am I really gonna ask this question?No.This is a picture of moving the hand in the frontal plane towards-- in the direction of the pinky finger.Now we know that that's the ulnar side of the wrist.So, ulnar deviation is moving towards the ulna side of the forearm.Alright.Now this makes sense.So we have twenty more minutes.Let's learn all these bones in those twenty minutes.Okay, so here's the job that we have ahead of us.Eight carpal bones.Those are the little bones in the wrist.Five metacarpals, five digits.And you might expect there would be fifteen bones in the digits called 'phalanges.'Nope.Fourteen.So that means that it's not a 'five times three' situation.It's a 'four times three plus two.'And only two in the thumb.So there are fourteen phalanges.Two here.One, two, three in the fingers.Okay, so let's learn these eight carpal bones.Scaphoid, lunate, triquetral, pisiform, trapezium, trapezoid, capitate, hamate.Yikes.None of that makes particular sense, but they're going to come in two tidy rows of four, so we'll learn them in that way.When you assemble the carpal bones, they form an arch.And that's gonna be important when we learn about why carpal tunnel syndrome exists.Because this arch forms that tunnel.So the structures that pass through that arch are the ones that get into trouble with carpal tunnel syndrome.Alrighty.So, can you find here, the palmar surface of the most distal and lateral carpal bone?Wow.So I would suggest finding distal and lateral first, and then decide if there's any way you can figure out which is the palmar surface here.Okay, so before you commit, here's a hint.If you feel the heel of your hand, this is where your-- your carpals are.You know that because you can find the distal end of your ulna and radius.When you press on that, when you press pretty hard on this palmar aspect, do you feel anything?Maybe you feel over here by St. Joseph.What's on the Indiana border, here, in Michigan?Heading towards the Indiana border.You feel a, uh, a bump.There's a hard bump over there, almost to Lake Michigan, and almost to Indiana.Okay, so do you see anything like that up here?Okay, let's go.Here is that bump.So this is how you know whether you're looking at a palmar or a dorsal aspect of the risk-- wrist, because of this bone that perches up on the other carpals.And you can feel it.On the western side of the state; western and southern side of the-- of Michigan, here.So, good work.Do you know anything about these carpals?And I won't linger long here, because you may not.But let's just see if you know-- if you've retained anything from what you did before class.So we're gonna study these carpals in-- in rows.A proximal row of four, a distal row of four.So this bone number four that we've been working with: this is a palmar view.This is the ulna side, and western side of the state, almost to Indiana.What's the name of that bone?And here we go.Ooh!You've converged on an answer.That bone is called the 'pisiform,' 'p'-shaped.Over at the thumb side, the scaphoid comes from a root of 'boat.'Here's lunate.It-- this is the cutest of the carpals.It actually looks like a crescent moon.When you have just a lunate on the table, it's-- it's the cutest little crescent moon you've ever seen.Triquetral is triangular-shaped, and the pisiform perches on it.Okay, so now let's look at this distal row of four carpals, uh, and see if you can find the one called the 'capitate.'And have you picked it out yet?Yes, you have.So let's see what you've got.And you have mostly found the capitate, as this biggest carpal in the distal row.The capitate.The hamate is very easy to identify 'cause it has a hook on it.And trapezium and trapezoid are just annoying.The two names sound alike.And that's just irritating.Except trapezium articulates with the bones of the thumb.So I put the two 'um's together in my mind.And that's how I remember that trapezium is the most lateral of these carpals in the distal row.Okay, so there's a job.And I suggest that's a weekend job, because you'll wanna take more pass-- more passes at learning these carpals than next Tuesday night, before the exam.So give it a go this weekend, and then rehearse next week.Okay, so, have we learned anything here?Here is a fractured-- a broken wrist.A fractured carpal bone.Which one is that?First of all, is it in the proximal or distal row?Did I make you come up with this?The name of it?Oof.Cruel.I should have put a list, of the...Your choices are: pisiform, lunate, triquetral, scaphoid.Those are the four proximal row.What was I thinking, that you could just write that name, at this point, all on your own.Okay.So those are your four choices and-- well, I know what I was thinking.That you're wonderfully bright University of Michigan undergrads, which is true.Okay, so let us see the word 'scaphoid.'Okay.So, in fact, this is the scaphoid, lunate, triquetral, and pisiform, okay?So the scaphoid articulates here with the radius.What is this?What's this landmark?What bone is this?Slender ulna.Styloid process.Looks like a needle.Okay, so moving on.Here is that scaphoid, fractured.Look at that pisiform, sitting up there on the triquetral.And here it is, two months later.And still healing at three months.This is interesting, isn't it?Look at this space.In fact, we're going to see that that's filled with a fibrocartilage pad.Number of the day: seventeen.Go for it.Got it.Okay.Next.Let's talk about carpal tunnel syndrome.So.Schematic view here of a transverse section through the carpals.Here are the carpals forming that arch, and then the structures inside that arch are soft, squishy things; a nerve and some tendons.There is a roof that is formed to enclose that tunnel.It's called the transverse carpal ligament.You could name that.Or if you saw it, you would know what it is.It runs transversely across this carpal arch.So it is an enclosed space.So what can go wrong with soft, squishy things in an enclosed space?If the space gets smaller, those soft, squishy things get impinged-- squeezed.Or if the soft, squishy things are damaged and, for example, through-- and get tendinitis, and they swell, then they're too big for the carpal tunnel, and that can also press on them.So those are two mechanisms of what can set off this thing that we called 'carpal tunnel syndrome.'So there are flexors tendons, that are going to flex the muscles of the fingers.And then there is a nerve called the 'median nerve.'Those are the structures that are at risk.So, um, when they get im-- compressed, you fall on your wrist, damage it.Or, you mouse, or game play, or keyboard too much, or your job is to cut up chickens in a factory, and you overuse those flexor muscles and get tendinitis, they can swell.So, if you wanna see a surgery that cuts open this transverse carpals ligament and releases the pressure on these structures, you can follow this link.Um, but typically, what's done earlier on is just immobilize the wrist.Sometimes you see people walking-- wearing wrist splints.It's likely to, um, relieve the tendinitis in those finger flexors from too much keyboarding, for example.Alrighty.So let's learn the last set of a jillion bones, today.We've got our metacarpals and our fingers.So this is pretty easy because they have numbers, not names.So all you have to do is remember, 'Where is the ‘one’ bone and where is the ‘five’ bone?'And the ‘one’ bone is on the thumb side, and then we just number sequentially, moving over to the pinky side.So metacarpal one is the one that belongs to the thumb; two belongs to the index finger, etcetera.Metacarpal five belongs to the-- the pinkie.Sometimes those are called 'rays,' um, and that kind of comes from an embryological-- or, a developmental anatomy view.If you're looking at, uh, fetal-- the development of vertebrates, you-- we might talk about the development of the metacarpals and phalanges as a whole ray.You might come across that term.Landmarks are easy.We've got a head, a base, and the in-between.The shaft in-between.Only thing you need to remember here: heads are distal.Bases are proximal.So what is that like?The ulna or the radius?Does the ulna or the radius have a distal head?Ulna.So the heads of the metacarpals are distal, like the ulna.Oh!Like it's written here on the slide.Okay.So, um, find the base of the first metacarpal.Let's put this knowledge to work.And once you've done that, you might rememb-- remind yourself whether this is the palmar or dorsal aspect of this set of bones that you're looking at.And the answer would be 'palmar,' because there is the pisiform.Alrighty.You are done.So, let's look at this and-- oof.Nailed it.Excellent.Carpals, metacarpals, one on the thumb side.Okay.Which landmark corresponds to your knuckles?Knuckle sandwich?You're serving heads of the metacarpals.Look at all those immature fingers in the first graders.First birthday, six-year-old 'first ray' means the thumb side.This is the pinky side.And still growing in elementary school.No surprise there.Alrighty.So let's talk about these fourteen phalanges.What is a single bone called?Interestingly, a 'phalanx,' with an 'x.'Not a 'phalange', but a 'phalanx.'Plural is 'phalanges.'So, we've got-- we've gotta name these bones.We've got a proximal phalanx, a middle phalanx, and a distal phalanx.So your fingernails are on the distal phalanx.And the thumb has only a proximal and distal, and does not have a middle phalanx.And the landmarks on each one of those phalanges is named, happily, the same way as the metacarpals.So the heads of these long bones, even though they're rather small, they are hollow.They fit the definition of a long bone.They have a head, a shaft, and a base, just like the metacarpals did.So, easy.We've got a cookbook; we just multiply it by five, basically, to sort out all of these bones.So, number three is-- and don't forget to tell me if this is a right one or a left one.And what have we got?Oh, we're still-- two more seconds.And here we go.So number three.Isn't that what we're working on?Number three.This is an-- palmar side, because there's the pisiform.So when I put my two palmar aspects up, it looks like I'm looking into my right hand.So, this is a right one.Uh, number three.This is the second metacarpal.So this must be the index finger.So this is the right second middle phalanx.And is that what you got?Yep.And here we go.They're all labeled for you there.So just be sure that you can identify the bone appropriately.That's the only job we've got for these phalanges.High school: fingers are mature.Ooh!What is that?Okay, so what are we looking at here?Radius, ulna, carpals.I know that the scaphoid articulates with the radius.That must be the lunate next door.Trapezium-- or, excuse me.Triquetral and pisiform.Here's the big capitate.The trapezium, trapezoid over here.This is the first metacarpal.And look at that thick cortical bone.And, there's a little-- is this a fracture?Well, in fact, this is not a fracture.This is a sesamoid bone.Remember, we talked about the little sesamoid bones that are inside tendons?Of course, the most famous one is your patella, or kneecap.We've got them here, too.And in fact, if you press, now where would that be?That's going to be right at this joint between the first metacarpal and the base of your proximal phalanx here.If you press in there, ooh, it's really uncomfortable.There's something kind of hard in there.So you would be-- you can kind of feel that sesamoid bone.So we have about five more minutes and some joints to talk about, so I won't get through all of this, but we'll be able to finish it up quite quickly on Monday morning.At least we got the bones under your belt now, so you're in good place to start working with them over the weekend.So we have to talk about what makes up the elbow, the wrist, and then all of these joints.Carpometacarpal.Metacarpal-- carpometacarpal here.Metacarpophalangeal, and then interphalangeal.So a lot of joints.By the way, all synovial.Okay.So elbow joint.What has to happen at the elbow?Well, the ulna and radius have to flex and extend on the humerus.But something else happens in this elbow joint complex: supination-pronation.So it's all in the same joint capsule.It's a synovial joint.The ends of these bones are all coated with lovely, smooth hyaline cartilage.Which is anterior?The-- the view without the olecranon process, because we know that's posterior.Okay, moving on.Here is what the joint looks like.The-- well, I'll back up one.The trochlear notch of the ulna articulates with the trochlea of the humerus.The radial head articulates with the capitulum of the humerus.So that's what these words are saying here.Humeroradial no-- joint.Humeroulnar joint.And there are going to be ligaments collateral on the side, on the ulnar side and on the radial side, that support the joints.The other joint that's included in this joint capsule is the one between the ulna and the radius.And this is where pronation-supination happens.This rounded and flattened head of the ulna-- of the radius spins against the ulna, and that swings the distal end of the radius around the ulna.And so we get radio-- and ulnar motion, pronation-supination, so that if you put your fingers on your ulna, and you pronate and supinate, ulna's going nowhere.That radius is spinning right around that stable ulna.You saw the words 'radial' and 'ulnar collateral ligaments' previously.Here's a picture of them.So this is a frontal view.Here's the medial epicondyle, and the ulna and radius, distally.So the collateral ligaments, we've talked about.The ulnar ligament runs around the head of the radius and holds it there, so that the radius is spinning inside that annular ligament.We've seen 'annular' means 'ring around,' as in the 'annulus fibrosis' in the intervertebral disc.So, we talked about the shoulder of pictures previously.What about the elbows?One of these elbow ligaments, the radio- or the ulnar collateral ligament, are at risk when you do this movement.And which one do you think it would be?Ooh.It turns out that the ligament on the medial side, this ulnar collateral ligament, gets stretched in these high-speed pitches.Where it is stretched, it can tear.And the 'Tommy John' surgery is the name for an ulnar collateral ligament repair.These are so successful that professional pitchers can go on to professionally pitch after having this repair done.It's quite remarkable.So it's the ulnar collateral ligament that gets into trouble with this movement.So can you find these ligaments?One last question of the day.Which is which.Can you find something that looks like the ulna or the radius?And once you do that, can you identify them?In particular, ligament two.This one, I guess.Alright, so I'm gonna stop this, and then I'm gonna explain to you what the answer is.And here they are.I will pick up from here and talk about the wrist and finger movements, ligaments, and injuries next time.Remember to email me if you have burning questions over the weekend.I will get back to you about those post-class quizzes.And, have a good rest of the week!See you next Monday.