Good morning, everyone.Happy Valentine's Day.Some of you may have special plans with somebody special this evening.If so, enjoy.If not, there are many fish in the sea, and lots of time.But in the meantime, make sure you do something nice for yourself this evening.There-- some of you will be unfortunately spending your day taking a lab exam.My sympathies.But it will be nice to get that done, so you can move on to working with the muscles in lab.Today I'm gonna work through a lot of these trunk muscles.It's quite likely that we'll get through most of them.But-- so what that means is next Monday, the last lecture before the next exam in here, we'll have time for review.So you can bring your questions that you might-- that might pop up over the weekend to class on Monday.I'll do some drawing for you on the board, and we'll talk about getting ready for that next exam.Any questions for me before going on?You're turning in assignments right and left.It's exciting.There's nothing that makes me kind of shudder inside when I see 180 assignments waiting to be graded.That's never happened to me before.So, thank you for giving me a new experience in life.Okay.So.Moving on, if you've got nothing for me right now... alright.So let's go on.Last time we left off talking about the muscles of mastication, the muscles controlling the temporomandibular joint.Let's move inferiorly and consider muscles that might flex the spine.So here're some drawings from sixteenth century.Muscles are needed to flex and extend, right and left laterally flex, and right and left rotate the spine.Where are the flexors?Where do you think the flexors are?On the left or on the right?Oops.Where do you think you'd find them?When-- the-- so, how do you approach that question?The flexors are going to shorten when the spine flexes.So, when you flex, are the muscles gonna shorten on the anterior side of the body, or the posterior side of the body?Anterior.Okay.So we're gonna look here anterior.Here are our flexors.So, let's start, um, superiorly, and think about the cervical spine.Next-- neck flexors cross the cervical spine anteriorly and shorten when the neck flexes.It's gonna sound kind of redundant when I say this, but I really want to-- want you to get it.That the-- how muscles function is the direction they shorten in.That's how we assign them to a functional group, right?So the neck-- so if you s-- if you look at the anterior side of the spine, it's-- most likely you're looking at the flexors.If you hear the word 'flexion of the spine'-- that would be words, plural-- you would immediately start thinking 'anterior spine.'One less thing to remember, because you understand what the concept means.Alright.So here is a model, demonstrate-- uh, flayed.We're looking at a supers-- -ficial dissection-- just the skin removed-- of the anterior cervical spine.And we're gonna be looking for three sets of muscles.The sternocleidomastoid.You know everything you need to know about the muscle by its name.We're gonna look for a group of muscles called the 'scalenes;' one's anterior, one's posterior, and one's in the middle.And then, uh-oh, this looks like a job.Prevertebral muscle group.But we'll dive in and see if we can make this job a little bit more simple.Prevertebral.Where are those muscles, do you think?Deep, deep, deep, deep, deep.Just anterior.Just 'pre-' to the vertebrae.Muscle group tells you what you need to know.So when you are studying these muscles, you will need to know who the members are of the prevertebral team.That's another job.So, sternocleidomastoid is named for its attachments.Sternum; '-cleido-'-- the clavicle; mastoid process.See mine?You can find yours really easily.Sternocleidomastoid.So, if I bring my mastoid process closer to my s-- clavicle-- this would be my sternum.I'm pointing to my sternum and saying 'clavicle.'By bringing these two attachments closer, which way is the cervical spine gonna rotate?This is, uh-- I'm gonna do it for you here.I'm gonna-- consider my right.I'm reverse to you.Sternocleidomastoid.I'm gonna bring those two-- my two fingertips together.My fingertips are pointing towards the attachment sites.And which way does my head rotate?What direction is that?That's left.So isn't that interesting?When I shorten my right sternocleidomastoid-- I think I have a question for you here, which I've just answered for you.When I shorten my right sternocleidomastoid, which direction does my cervical spine rotate?Sternocleidomastoid.And you have chosen... oops.I was-- I'm sorry.I wasn't reading my question.It's lateral flexion.It also works for, uh, rotation.I'm sorry, I jumped the gum.This question was about lateral flexion, not rotation.I'm sorry.So when I bring these two points together, is my right ear closer to my right shoulder girdle?Yes.So that's right lateral flexion.So the right sternocleidomastoid is a right lateral flexor, right?What I demonstrated previously was rotation.You can see that I'm rotated as well.It's laterally flexed in this position.Are you with me?Good work.And let's see that happen.So this muscle is going to turn green when it shortens.So right now, it's in a-- uh, this is the right sternocleidomastoid.And it is going to shorten when it pulls the head from the position of left lateral flexion back towards the right.That's what you were seeing there.It might be easier when we consider our anatomy man here.We're gonna see a lot of him, literally and figuratively.So this is to introduce you to a concept.Ipsilateral lateral flexion.So we've talked about the movements of right lateral flexion and left lateral flexion.But what we've seen now is a muscle on the right is responsible for right lateral flexion.And, of course, sternocleidomastoid on the left would be responsible for left lateral flexion.So that's a mouthful.If we just say the function of sternocleidomastoid is ipsilateral lateral flexion, what does that tell us?It tells us 'same side.'So the sternocleidomastoid on the right side laterally flexes to the right.Sternocleidomastoid on the left laterally flexes towards the left.The function of sternocleidomastoid, in general, capturing both right and left one, is ipsilateral, same side.Ipsilateral lateral flexion.Okay.New term.So let's see our guy here do this movement for us.And you can see his sternocleidomastoid there, on the right, pulling his right ear down to his right shoulder.Now, we'll move into where I started, talking about rotation.So I-- I started talking to you about how the right sternocleidomastoid ends up-- it right laterally flexes.But when it pulls those two points together, my face is towards the left.So the right sternocleidomastoid rotates the cervical spine in the opposite direction.So we call it a 'contralateral rotator.'When the right sternocleid-- -cleidomastoid shortens, it rotates the spine in the opposite direction, towards the left.That's odd.A muscle on the right rotates towards the left.But that's exactly because of where its attachments are.And I truly, truly, truly, truly ask you to do this at home.Bring your fingertips together.Then you never have to memorize anything about sternocleidomastoid.You're feeling its attachments, and you're doing its function.No need for memorization at all.So let's see him do this for us.Look quick, 'cause I think it's only gonna happen once.We are looking at his... right one, rotating his head to the left.Are you with me on that?It's a little odd, but some of our muscles of the spine are gonna function that way.So he won't-- here we'll see the-- it shortens when it turns green.Now, the formal introduction to sternocleidomastoid, now that we've explored its function.Attaches sternum and medial third of clavicle; inserts on the mastoid process.Now, why is the origin and insertion that way?Because when that muscle shortens, it's exerting equal force on the sternum and the clavicle and the mastoid process.But which one do you think weighs less, and might move more easily?Rather than pulling the body over towards the head, it's likely that the head's gonna move.So, we call the-- the mastoid process the 'insertion.'When you turn on both of them, right and left at the same time, you get flexion of the cervical spine.When you turn on just one of them, you get contralateral rotation.And if you turn on just one of them, you're gonna get ipsilateral lateral flexion.Okay.That's 'muscle one' of the cervical spine.And let's look at it in a dissection view.There's voice here, so we'll see how loud it is.So he just described those movements, in kind of-- lay language, about where the chin goes when one-- one of them contracts.And you've learned how we would describe that in anatomical language.If you noticed there, he-- he said-- right when the-- it started, he said, 'Deep to, or just underneath the platysma.'And he lifted something up to show the sternocleidomastoid.The platysma is a layer of musculature in the skin, that we still have some in our neck.You know how horses can kind of jiggle their skin to get the fly off?We have a little bit of that musculature left in our necks.So if you make a face, you can kind of make your platysma stand out.Just a little bit of vestibular-- excuse me.Vestigial musculature.Definitely outside of the scope of the course.So let's move on to the scalene muscles now.We've got an anterior, middle, and posterior, and they seem to be there.So, they're shown here for us.Which one do you think would be the scalenus anterior?Alrighty, let's see what you've got.And you have made a few selections here.So let's make sense of this.What do we see?We see a mastoid process; a mastoid process, something attaching to a mastoid process.A sternum, and a clavicle.So over here is the sternocleidomastoid, so that can't be it.Over here are three muscles, and they all seem to be attaching to transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae.And some are attaching to the first rib, and one is attaching to the second rib.So as a group, these are running from transverse processes to the first two ribs.And most anterior is this one.So that's scalenus anterior.Okay.And, so here they are.This is what we just saw.They're drawn on both sides.They all arise from the transverse processes that insert on the first two ribs.So good news here is I'm not gonna ask you to remember scalenus anterior and scalenus medius attach on the first rib, and the posterior attaches on the second rib.That's much too dee-- too much, too much detail.Just remember the most superior to-- to ribs.Cerv-- cervical transverse processes to the ribs.And what do these do?Well, laterally flex the spine.They're gonna pull those transverse processes to the ribs.But, in cases where someone really has to work hard to breathe, instead, these muscles might be used to elevate the ribs.Now, that's gonna happen in a case of emphysema, or some serious issue with increasing the volume of the thoracic cavity.So we typically think of this muscle as relating to the function of lateral flexion.So, which direction do the right-sided scalenus muscles laterally flex the neck?Here they are.Let's see.Are these the scalenus muscles?Transverses processes, a rib.Transverse processes, a rib.So we've got scalenus muscles on both sides-- shown on both sides-- but we're focusing on these.Which way are they going to...?Right scalenus muscles laterally flex the head to the right.They're gonna turn green, and when they pull that head back towards the right, that would be a movement in the direction of right lateral flexion.So, what does that mean?Uh, that means that the scalenus muscles-- are they ipsilateral lateral flexors, or contralateral lateral flexors?When I shorten the right ones, they're gonna laterally flex.They're gonna pull those transverse processes on the right down towards the right ribs.So it's ipsilateral.As a matter of fact, every lateral flexor is an ipsilateral lateral flexor.It's-- in this case, we never-- there's no such thing as a contralateral lateral flexor.Rotation is a different story.But for lateral flexion, if you're on the right, and you're a lateral flexor, you're gonna be an ipsilateral lateral flexor.Okay.So, you've seen this figure before.We talked about this when investigating what was this structure.And it was a cervical rib.But-- and I said that you would know you had one of these, because of some issue in your arm on that side, like it was cold or it tingled.And here's why.Here are our scalenus muscles.Um, and you can see that there's a big blood vessel that passes between a scalenus muscle and that cervical rib.So when that scalenus would contract, it could press on that blood vessel and occlude blood flow.Similarly, there are a lot of spinal nerve roots that would pass over this cervical rib.And again, when scalenus contracts, it could press on those and make for some sensation issues in the arm.So, I'm just putting this up here to finish that story, 'cause it wasn't complete unless you knew about the presence of the scalenus muscles.And how it would interact with the cervical rib and these vulnerable, soft, squishy structures that are very important.Okay, so we've seen sternocleidomastoid, the scalene muscles, and now we're going to meet the prevertebral muscles.As I suggested to you, they're just-- they're very, very close to the vertebrae.Just anterior to them.And so, how-- what does this dissection show us?All of the good stuff has been removed.The trachea, the esophagus, the sternocleidomastoid.So we're quite deep in this dissection.We're looking at the anterior aspect of the vertebral bodies here.And so you can see, that's where these prevertebral muscles are.There're four of them, two long ones and two rectus ones.'Longus'; they're long.'Rectus'; they're straight.Longus capitis; longus coli.'Capitis': 'the head.'So, a muscle that has 'capitis' in its name, 99 percent of the time is gonna attach to the skull.'Coli': 'column,' 'neck.'So, one of the longus muscles has an attachment on the skull.The other longest muscle doesn't.Rectus capitis anterior; rectus capitis lateralis.Little, straight muscles attaching to the head.One anteriorly, one laterally.So let's look at those.These are the suspects for the cap-- rectus muscles.And here are our longus muscles.What are these?Cervical transverse processes, attachments on the ribs.So you're seeing the scalenus muscles also, in this view.Alrighty.So here they are, all labeled for you.Longus capitis, a long muscle, relatively, that attaches onto, uh, bone of the skull.Longus coli attaches-- is a long muscle, but does not reach all the way superiorly to attach on the skull.The rectus muscles are little short ones, anterior and lateral.And where are they attaching?First cervical vertebra-- the atlas.And then on the occipital bone.And, just to drive that point home, the three of the four of the muscles that have 'capitis' in the name all attach to the skull.Longus coli does not.For those of you about to take the lab exam on bones, what's this little thing here?Styloid process.What bone is that on?Temporal.Ooh.I answered the question for you.Excellent work.Okay.And here we come to the business.Uh, do you see very much detail here in the description of the origin and insertion?Not too much.The longus capitis and longus coli have origin on the vertebrae, and insert based on their name.Or rather, their name is based on their insertion, on where they're attaching.And again, the insertion seems to be superior to the origin here.Again, the skull's gonna be easier to move than the whole rest of the trunk attached to the other end of the muscle.So typically, that's how we define it.If you turn on both of them, right and left, you get flexion.If you turn on one of them, you get ipsilateral lateral flexion, because all lateral flexors are ipsilateral lateral flexors.If we come over here, we see that these little rectus muscles are very short, and very, very, very superior.They're, um-- uh, attaching on the atlas, first cervical vertebra, and then on the occipital bone, as their name suggests.And they have the same fun-- function.So they are just anterior to the vertebra.So they are flexors.Prevertebral.Anterior, too.And the big overview here.Uh, what have we got?Sternum, clavicle, mastoid process.Here is sternocleidomastoid.Here is transverse processes of cervical vertebrae.And a rib.This must be one of the scalenus muscles.What is this?It's very deep.Very-- it's one of the prevertebrals.Which one do you think it is?Longus coli, right?It's not attaching on the skull.So it must be-- it's one of the 'longus' ones, 'cause it's long, and it doesn't reach all the way up, to the skull.Okay.So all of these muscles are anterior to the, um, spine.They're going to flex.So, on your Valentine's Day event this evening, you should either do a self-massage, or ask your Valentine-- Valentine's Day companion to give you a scalenus massage, right?This gets really tight.I do this a lot.You can feel these muscles.If you can't laterally flex very easily, it's likely really tight scalenus muscles.So dig in there, and do some studying.And get a massage at the same time.Okay.So, uh, let's watch these muscles turn green with flexion.Ta-da!They're turning green with flexion.They are flexors.Okay.So watch this to your content.Ooh!This looks like a cross-section through the neck.Let's do some fun work here.Believe it or not, you can figure out what these muscles are.Welcome to our first cross-section.We're gonna have more of these.This is commonplace for today's medical students.But it wasn't until the late twentieth century that this became a part of medical education.Why is that?Because before then, we didn't have cross-sectional images easily available to us, right?We didn't have MRIs.We didn't have CT scans until late in the last century.Okay.So, let's see what you might be thinking.Okay.Well, I'm gonna back up and talk you through this.And be-- and I'm definitely-- there's gonna be a slide that has all the answers for you.So let's just think together.Always get oriented.What's anterior and what's posterior?Well, I see something that looks an awful lot like a vertebra, here.So this must be posterior.Don't know what the heck this stuff is, anterior, but let's think about it.What have you got anterior?You've got a trachea.And tucked posterior to it, your esophagus.Okay?And then this is-- any idea what this is?It's a gland.Thyroid gland?Okay.So, all the rest of this is musculature, and fair game.You can see some important blood vessels, here, as well.Alrighty.So we've got anterior separated from posterior.We don't know anything yet about the posterior muscles, but we know what the anterior muscles are.What do you suppose one is?It's kind of anterolateral, and very superficial.You can put your fingers on it.It's your sternocleidomastoid, right?There's a layer of musculature here, which we are not talking about in this course.Here's a muscle tucked in just anterior to the transverse processes.And there are three muscles here that seem to be attaching to the transverse processes.So, three, four and five are the scalene muscles, attaching to the transverse processes, and right where you would expect them to be.So, number two, we know, would belong to the prevertebral group.But which one is it?Is this a picture of the atlas?No.This is somewhere in the mid-range of the cervical spine.You know that because you see that big spinous process.So this can't be one of the prevertebral muscles that attaches to the atlas.So it can't be any the rectus muscles.So that leaves us with longus coli and longus capitis.Since we're in the middle, I would say-- my guess would be longus coli.And there's everything labeled for you.Highlight this slide.This could be on the exam.This is the one case where you would identify muscles on a picture on the exams, cross-sections.And, find your friend sternocleidomastoid.Easiest muscle in the course to study, because its name tells you everything you could possibly need to know about this muscle.You see this diagonal path.There it is.Sternocleidomastoid.And you have clicked on it.Good job.Beautiful.So these are some of the muscles that you saw in cross-section previously that we're just not talking about.Okay.Muscles of the neck, lateral view.I feel a quiz coming on.What is muscle for?Superficial dissection, just under the skin here.Can you find any bones?Get your feet on solid ground.You know all about the bones at this point.And then, what do you remember about how the muscles might relate to those bones?And muscle four is-- you got it.Uhp, I'll go forward.And here're all the answers for you.What's this muscle?What muscle did we learn about last time that attached on the angle and-- of the mandible, on the lateral aspect?Name please, anybody?Masseter.Thank you very much.There's the masseter.Okay.So, here we have a summary.The spine flexors.We would put the sternocleidomastoid and prevertebrals there.Why-- the scalene muscles don't have much of a moment arm for flexion.So if push came to shove, you'd recruit them, but they don't really contribute that much to flexion.Lateral flexors, our sternocleidomastoid-- are all of the muscles we've talked about.And they're all ipsilateral lateral flexors.The only muscles so far that we have talked about that rotate is sternocleidomastoid, and it is a contralateral rotator.Okay.So this would be an example of a flashcard where you can start putting muscles together that contribute to a function.So, you've got individual muscles.You've got muscle groups.You have a flashcard for those prevertebrals.And you have-- who belongs to the prevertebral group.And then you have this functional approach where you have to generate spine contralateral rotation.Who might you recruit to accomplish that job?Okay, so let's move inferiorly and talk about muscles that might flex the rest of the spine.And here we have a lovely picture of an abdominal wall.We see that six-pack muscle.And what is the function of these muscles that we're seeing here?Where are they with respect to the axis of rotation in the sagittal plane?Anterior to it.So we're looking at flexors here.So the abdominal muscles, shown quite beautifully here, are flexors.So in particular, the six-pack muscle is rectus abdominis.We've seen that word 'rectus' before-- 'straight.'Now, it's of the abdomen.So let's-- let's consider what we're looking at here.We've got a very superficial dissection on the right.We see the skin, subcutaneous tissue, some adipose tissue.And then on the left, those tissues have been dissected away, so you can look at the rectus abdominis.So should you look underneath this subcutaneous tissue, you see a covering over the rectus muscle.It is enveloped in a sheath of connective tissue that's called the 'rectus sheath.'A peculiarity.And this muscle's gonna shorten for us during flexion.It's gonna turn green with shortening.Hello, rectus abdominis.Okay.And details here.Attaches on the pubic crest, and then superiorly on the xiphoid process, costal cartilages.So on the rib cage.So it's gonna pull the ribcage towards the pelvis.And it's going to pull them together in the flexion direction.So this muscle is unique because it has these little tendon bands inserted into the musculature.'Tendinous inscriptions' is the fancy name.And then there's a line of connective tissue down the middle, the line of the abdomen, or the 'linea alba,' that separates the two abdominal-- rectus abdominis muscles.So this is what gives us that six-pack look, because these fibers shorten in between these tendinous, uh, inscriptions.So if we go back to this sculpture, you can see the location of those tendons, and you can see it here as well.Okay.Uh, let's see our guy, our muscle man... pulling that rib cage towards that pelvis.He did it.Good work.Okay.And let's hear about the rectus abdominis here.I'm gonna stop here, just so we can talk a little bit about that word he used, 'aponeurosis.'An aponeurosis is a flattened tendon.Essentially, the tendon of insertion of this muscle-- one of the obliques that we'll talk about shortly-- that those muscle fibers insert into the anterior aspect of this sheath.So he called it an 'aponeurosis.'Okay.And he's tidying up.Okay.So, let's talk about what inserts or attaches through that aponeurosis.So the rectus abdominis is down the middle.The obliques are muscles that-- whose fibers are oriented obliquely, at an angle.They're angling in, to that-- um, into the abdomen.There's one more superficial, called 'external oblique.'Deep to the external oblique is the internal oblique.That's easy.So we see our dissection that we saw previously, very superficial.And then over here is deeper.You can see that the rectus sheath has been removed, and we're looking at some of the musculature deep to that.So over here, the external oblique has been cut away so we can look deep to see the internal oblique, and then over here is an even deeper dissection.So while we're here, you can appreciate, during development, the testes descend into the scrotum and they exit the abdominal wall through these inguinal hiatus here.So this is where men might have hernias of the abdominal wall, because there's an opening here, so the abdominal contents can sometimes herniate through this space.Women, if they have-- um, the abdominal content herniations, it's through this femoral triangle here.So-- and that's related to the anatomy that we're looking at here.Totally belonged-- beyond the scope of the course, but there it is, for us to look at.Okay.So here's external oblique.Origin.Inferior ribs, insertion.Ooh.Iliac crest.Aponeurosis from ribs to linea alba.So a very complicated attachment.But, basically, I want you to remember ribs to pelvis, right?Ribs to pelvis.What I want you to note, however, because it's very importantly related to the function, is the direction of these fibers.External oblique.The fibers run like you're putting your hands in your pockets.Why is that important?Because when I shorten in that direction, I'm going to pull this end of the muscle towards this end of the muscle.And I contralaterally rotate.So, it's important to remember that the external oblique is a contralateral rotator.And the reason that it rotates the swine contralaterally is because of this direction of the fibers.Internal oblique.Same complicated ribs-to-pelvis attachment.But what do you see here?The fibers run in the opposite direction.So internal oblique has an opposite function with regards to rotation.It's an ipsilateral rotator.So it's going to pull-- here's the right one-- it's gonna pull-- shorten in this direction, because of the direction of the fibers.I remember this as 'internal ipsilateral.The two 'i's.And, they're ipsilateral lateral flexors because all lateral flexors are ipsilateral lateral flexors.So I have to caution you to slow down and read the words.Yes?Uh, what?Yeah, yeah.Because depending on-- was your question-- what was your question?Again, was it about--?Is in both?Yes.It's horribly complicated, because it depends on if you are talking-- which portion of the muscle.So iliac crest.So we have-- for these fibers, the iliac crest would be the origin.But for these-- this portion of the muscle-- it's the insertion.Isn't that terrible?So, that's not wrong.It's very com-- these words are not wrong.It depends on where you are in the muscle.It's that complicated.So, I don't want you to worry about this detail so much.Remember, ribs to pelvis, and you're-- you're good.This is what I want you to focus on.The direction and the function.I will never ask you a question about, 'Is the iliac crest the origin or insertion of this muscle?'Okay.Thank you for bringing that to our attention.So let's look at these muscles in action.External oblique, activating this side, rotating to the left.That's contralateral.And we'll see ipsilateral now.Let's consider the so-called abdominal wall.So, you don't have bones on the anterior aspect of your abdomen-- you do on your thorax, but not on your abdomen.So, what presents anteriorly is a wall of musculature just deep to your skin, but anterior to all the-- all your guts, all your viscera.And so let's consider what that abdominal wall is composed of.So here's a cross-section that I think really helps you to understand what's going on.So what's anterior?This must be anterior, because there's a external oblique, and-- from the curvature, you can tell this is anterior.So we have the linea alba.You can see the rectus sheath.You can see the external oblique inserting into this rectus sheath, which is that attaching to the linea alba.Deep to external oblique would be internal oblique.And then a muscle called transversus abdominis, which is the deepest of all of the muscles.It just runs this way, and it doesn't actually move the skeleton.All it does is compress your viscera.So when you do a Valsalva maneuver, if you cough, you engage.You-- you-- you increase your intra-abdominal pressure by engaging that muscle.Um, so that's transversus abdominis.Deep.Let's hear what he has to say.External oblique.And he's gonna continue.I guess I need to move on.Oh, number of the day.Um, we had a neglected volunteered number last time.I think it was number one, so let's go with that.Okay, are we all in?Here we go.One.Okay.I'm having nightmares about this number-of-the-day thing.Okay.Uh, beautiful.Look at that.Okay.So, one more muscle on this anterior side.Psoas major.And here we see it depicted in the 1700s very colorfully, with a rhino in the background for some reason.I have no idea why one would put a rhino in a scene that is showing us lungs and the-- um-- and psoas major, right here.So this is a muscle that's like which muscle in the cervical spine?Would this be like the scalenes, or more like the prevertebrals, do you think?It's very, very deep.It's attaching on the transverse processes here.By location, I'd give it a prevertebral.But notice, I'm not talking about what it does, because look where it's attaching.It's attaching on the femur.So we're really gonna talk about this muscle, not with respect to its function on the lumbar spine, but with respect to what it does at the hip.So, this is just a, 'Hello, it's there.'And it's classified as an anterior muscle.But we'll talk about its attachments, and it's a-- functions later.Okay, so look what we've done.We've added some more flexors.We've added some more ipsilateral lateral flexors.We've added another contralateral rotator, and we have so far only one ipsilateral rotator of the spine that we've identified.Whooh.So that's all of the anterior muscles.Now we're going to flip about, and start talking about the posterior muscles of the spine.And we already know what the function of these muscles are, right?They're on the opposite side of the spine from the flexors, therefore, by definition, they must be extensors.Muscles on the posterior side are gonna get shorter when I extend.So, they're extensors.Now.What happens, when you take the skin off the posterior aspect of the trunk, is you see these muscles.These most superficial muscles, actually, are muscles that control the shoulder girdle and the glenohumeral joint.So we have to go deep to those muscles to start looking at the muscles that control the spine.So the most superficial muscles on the posterior aspect of the trunk don't function at the spine, so we're gonna start at an intermediate layer, and then go to a deeper layer.The most superficial of the posterior spine muscles, in this intermediate layer, are the splenius and erector spinae muscles.Okay.So, let's go find those muscles.Here's splenius.It has two parts: capitis and cervicis.In Latin, do you pronounce the 'c' soft or hard?Is it 'cervi-kiss' or 'cervi-siss'?Anybody wanna help me with that?Thank you!Thank you.'Cervicis.'Okay, I'll get it right.So, splenius capitis, like we expect of all capitis muscles, attaches on the skull.And, then, attaches also on the spinous processes here, in the cervical region.Cervicis-- splenius cervicis doesn't reach as far superiorly.And, are they flexors or extensors?Let's see them in action here.They're gonna turn green with extension.And this would be splenius capitis, because of its exten-- its attachment there, on the skull.Now, do we think this is gonna be a contralateral or an ipsilateral rotator?When this muscle shortens and brings this attachment to this attachment-- this is a left one-- which way do you think the skull's gonna rotate?To the left.So, our guess then, is it's an ipsilateral rotator.And, we're right.We're correct.There it goes, turning green.The one on the left side is shortening when the head rotates to the left.So we have found another ipsilateral rotator.Splenius capitis, spinous processes of cervical and thoracic vertebrae, and then it inserts on the skull.The skull's gonna-- is more-- is more likely to move, so we call this end the 'insertion.'Capitis reaches up to the mastoid process and occipital bone; the skull.And, cervicis only reaches as superiorly as transverse processes.Ipsilateral rotation; we just guessed, hypothesized and confirmed, and ipsilateral lateral flexion.And because we're on the posterior aspect of the spine here, they're extensors.Now we're gonna talk about the erector spinae muscles.This is a massive group of muscles, and these muscles are going to extend cervical, thoracic, and lumbar spine.The whole group.And there he's demonstrating what his extens-- uh, erector spinae muscle can do.And we'll see them here.This whole group.Turning green with extension, shortening with extension.If you shorten with extension, you are an extensor muscle.And here we go.Wow, that's a lot of muscles.But the good news is they come in groups, and you only have to understand what the groups are.So we name them medial to lateral.Are they close to the spine?Are they very medial?Then we'll call them 'media'-- 'spinalis.'They're close to the spine.Do they-- are they long?But not quite as medial is the spinalis.Longissimus.And then, if they reach all the way out to the costalis-- ribs.Ribs are lateral.That's the most lateral aspect.And we divide them up in terms of where they are, superior to inferior.So there's a capitis group; we know where that is.Uh, muscles in the cervical region, muscles in the thoracic region, muscles in the lumbar region.We put00 we choose a name from here, and from here.And, so we can identify longissimus thoracis in the thoracic region, part of the longissimus group, intermediate, and it's medial-lateral.So here we go.Um, here're muscles in the longissimus group in the ca-- capitis regis-- region, cervical region, thoracic region.And then, we can consider the thoracic region, and move medial to lateral.Spinalis thorath-- thoracis, longissimus thorathi-- thoracis, and ilioco-- -costalis thoracis.So you just need to know, um, the orientation, and you know exactly where you are in the erector spinae group.And there is a iliocostalis lumborum as well.So, if you look at the whole chart, it's not a comple-- there aren't twelve; three times four, exactly.Lumborum, of course, doesn't have a-- a-- only-- is missing these two.And so, the lumborum group only has one muscle in it: iliocostalis lumborum.And then, in the capitis region, of course, there aren't ribs to reach, so, that-- that cell is blank as well.So I just need you to understand how you would, um, ad-- um, if you were given a name, where would you find the muscle?That's basically what I want you to take away from this.So, let's try that right now.Given a name, which would be most medial?Given a name, which would be most superior?That's how I want you to approach this.So basically, all you need to do is remember the medial-lateral orientation, because of course, the superior-inferior: you've already got that.Fabulous work.So, right erector muscle-- erector spinae muscles shorten with right lateral flexion, because all lateral flexors are ipsilateral lateral flexors.We got that.So these muscles are gonna shorten with right-- the ones on the right are gonna shorten with-- turn green, shorten, with right lateral flexion.Which way will his spine move if he shortens his right erector spinae muscles?And, it will be lateral flexion to the right.So, just some language and pictures to tell you erector spinae is an ipsilateral lateral flexor.So now, what have we learned?If we're just categorizing our posterior muscles, we've got everybody's posterior's an extensor.They're all-- they're ipsilateral lateral flexors.And erector spinae doesn't have a moment arm to contribute to rotation, so it doesn't have a rotation function.But, uh, splenius does.We do-- we do see that the, um-- the splenius muscles are ipsilateral rotators.So now we're going to go deep to the erector spinae muscles, and deep to the splenius muscles.Dissect those away, and look what's underneath.And there're very, very deep muscles that are controlling the spine.Let's stop for a minute and think, 'Why are there all these muscles on the spine, posteriorly?'Uhh.We pick things up.We need musculature to extend our spine.This is where we're interacting with the world, right?Look at this huge moment arm, from my spine to the chair I have in my hand.The piece of IKEA furniture I'm trying to move from here to there.Huge moment arm.Half a meter.Heavy object.These muscles have to be very, very strong.We need a lot of musculature posteriorly.We don't have much anteriorly.Some of us-- like, if I were to demonstrate a sit-up right now, you'd wonder if I had any musculature anteriorly, right?But it's all about this posterior strength.So.We're going to start looking at what's deep to erector spinae and the splenius muscles.And we have three muscle groups here.Suboccipital muscles.Right now, you can tell me exactly where those are.Transversospinalis muscles.Transverse processes to spinous processes.Actually, this nasty word is your friend.And then segmental muscles.So that's our job now.So we're looking very deep.So suboccipital muscles.I just made the proclamation that you could tell me where these muscles were, and let's see if I am right.And here you go.Yep.You've tucked them up right under the occipital bone.Good work.And in particular, I'm gonna turn this off for a moment-- they're-- they're even deeper than-- than what you see on this side.What do these look like to you?Remember we saw, in the prevertebral rectus capitis anterior?Do you suppose maybe we're looking at rectus capitis posterior?Uh-huh.Here're the suboccipitals.Rectus capitis posterior.And in this case, we have a little one and a big one.A minor and a major.And then we have some obliquus capitis, superior-inferior.So, what do we expect of these muscles, based on the 'capitis' in their name?We would expect them all to attach to the... skull.One of them doesn't.Remember, I said 99 percent of the time you're-- if it says 'capitis,' it's gonna attach to the skull?Which one doesn't?Obliquus capitis inferior doesn't.It violates that rule, but at least it's very close to the skull.Right?So these are your suboccipitals.What I want you to remember here is that they're deep, and they're very, very superior.They essentially are running between the skull and the first and second vertebra.So they're the posterior analog of those prevertebral muscles that you learned before.So I need you to know-- if you saw this name, 'obliquus capitis superior'-- I need you to know that it belongs to the suboccipital group.But I don't necessarily need you to tell me what its origin and insertion are.Okay.And here we see-- can we name these muscles?Here are the rectus, the two rectus muscles.I say that because they're very straight.So I would guess those are rectus muscles.And here's one of the obliques, obliquus.And it attaches capitis, and it attaches on the skull, so I would say this is the superior one.It's that kind of logic that I want you to be able to move forward with, based on the names of these muscles.You could make some very informed guessing about what they are.So we're gonna see these three members of this suboccipital group.Okay.The rectus capitis inf-- inferior that doesn't attach on the skull is not shown.And we're seeing these muscles turn green with extension of the cervical spine here.So we've done the suboccipitals.No listing of attachments for you.So your job here is to know where to find them.Transversospinalis.All of these muscles attach on a transverse process and a spinous process.Every member of the transversospinalis group, you know its attachments, because they belong to this group.Just like you know where to find every member of the suboccipital group.So let's see if you can identify a muscle that you think might belong to this group.Based on transversospinalis.Okay.And as you can see, these muscles are extraordinarily deep.And you-- everybody is correct here, except for these people.This runs from transverse process to transverse process, not from transverse process to spinous process.So this is wrong, and this is wrong.This is spinous process to spinous process.The others are running from transverse to spinous processes.So.Alright.So here are the muscle names that you need to learn to associate with this transversospinalis group.So we have more 's' words.Semispinalis, not to be confused with the spinalis members of the erector spinae group.Semispinalis belongs to the transversospinalis group.Run upward and medially.Upward and medially.So when this shortens, we need to figure out what's gonna happen.Multifidus is part of this group, and the rotatores.So here's semispinalis.Runs upward and medially.So when it shortens, it's gonna pull this spinous process towards the transverse process.So on the right side, when it pulls that spinous process towards the transverse processes on the right side, it's gonna cause contralateral rotation.Multifidus.Same deal.Contralateral rotator as well.Think about what's gonna happen when you pull this spinous process towards this-- when this distance shortens, between this spinous process and this transverse process, and the spinous process moves, it's gonna cause rotation towards the right.In this case, contralateral rotation.These muscles also have a moment arm in the frontal plane, so they're going to ipsilaterally laterally flex.And then finally, we have the rotatores, and these also are contralateral rotators.Everybody in this group is a contralateral rotator, because they all have a similar relationship in that they're pulling spinous processes towards transverse processes.So they're all contralateral rotators.And this is gonna help to extend.They have very, very short moment arm in the frontal plane.So we don't assign them the role of lateral flexion.So, do you see any details here about attachment sites?No.Whole group, spinous process to transverse process, and they pull that spinous process over to the transverse process.So they're all contralateral rotators.So what's important is to remember the names of the muscles that are part of this transversospinalis group, and their function: contralateral rotation.And finally, let's look at these segmental muscles.These are very, very deep.And these muscles run between transverse processes and between spinous processes.So if you were going to find an intertransversarius muscle, which one would you choose?It's likely going to be running between transverse processes, as its name says 'between,' transverse.And so you have found this little guy, and you're correct.Runs between two transverse processes.Intertransversarius.Gotta love these segmental muscles.So they either run between transverse processes, or between spinous processes.Interspinous, intertransversarius.So here's intertransversarius, that you just identified.And here are the interspinales, between the spinous processes.Lateral flexors, ipsilateral lateral flexors, and extensors.Last muscle.Last muscle.So.Quadratus lumborum runs between the transverse processes in the lumbar spine in the ileum.So this might be like the scalenus muscles in the cervical region, and this muscle, like the scalenus, transverse-- or, excuse me.Lateral flex-- flexion.And let's look at our anatomy man's function of his quadratus lumborum.Ipsilateral lateral flexion, thank you very much.And we'll see quadratus lumborum, um, in a moment.Or not.Is this the signal that I should be quitting?I guess this is the signal that we're done for the day.So I've gotten through all of the muscles, miraculously.So what we'll do on Monday is some quizzing, some review of these muscles.And then I will be available to answer your questions to prepare for the exam next Wednesday.Okay?So, enjoy Valentine's day.Enjoy the lab quiz this week.It'll be great to get it behind you, and enjoy 40 degrees.See you next week.