I am officially starting with a very big voice.Wow.How do I turn that volume down?Here?Do we like that better?Am I loud enough?No, now I'm not loud enough.Now am I okay?Is it good, back there?Are you okay?Alright.So, I am three minutes late this morning.But let me tell you what-- what I got as a prize for that.I got to hear you talking to each other.That was really great, because as soon as I start talking, everyone goes quiet.So anyway, that was a treat, to hear that you're actually alive and talking in the mornings.So an announcement: I will no longer accept paper numbers.Numbers of the day on paper.That is, unless you're participating all day on paper.But the little scraps of paper with a number on it just isn't working for me.So I'm-- sometimes your computer doesn't work, and that's why you need to do it.So I'll just give you a heads-up to make sure your computer is working before I announce the number.So I hope that this won't inconvenience anyone too much, but I need to do that.Okay.Any questions for me before I get started on assignments, on anything?Many, many, many assignments out there, underway.Alright.You see, now we're entering into the no-- 'no talk to me' zone.Alrighty.Let's continue on with knees and ankles.We're gonna be talking about knees and ankles today.But just to check in to see where you are with finding your way around these tarsal bones, here is an image of a hominid foot that was found a couple of years ago in Israel.And I would like you to sort out which tarsal do you think might be missing?Your knowledge of modern human tarsals can help you.Maybe the person next to you who was telling you what they did last night can also tell you what tarsal is missing.It's amazing, what a little knowledge-- how far you can go with a little knowledge.And let's-- last call.Alrighty.What do you think?You think it's the medial cuneiform or the cuboid.Good, narrowing it down to two.So let's think about that.The cuboid, last time, we learned to associate with the calcaneus, right?So let's find the calcaneus.Here's the calcaneus, and the calcaneus-- at least in the modern human-- articulates with the cuboid.The navicular articulates with the three cuneiforms.So my vote would be a missing medial cuneiform.So I'm going to check and see if that-- yeah.Alrighty.So just to drive this point home, let's look at a modern human and find the lateral cuneiform, just to get this all straightened out.About ten more people need to weigh in here.Alright, and there are ten people, so let's see what we've got.Almost all there.Again: calcaneus, cuboid.Calcaneus is lateral.So this must be the lateral cuneiform.So a whole bunch of you got that right.Good work.Alright.I was eating breakfast in Montreal last summer, and I had to go to the restroom, and this was on the door.So I rushed back to my bag, and got my phone, and took this picture.And I am going to ask you: what did I see when I saw this gal on the women's restroom door?What inclination angle at the hip would align this young woman's knees so that they're closer together?The 'knock kneed'-- so-called 'knock-kneed' alignment of the lower extremity.What's going on in the femur that's gonna be responsible for this?Once you know that, then there's just a rule to apply, to figure out what's going on at the knee.What we call it at the knee.And you've done that, so let's see what we have here.Pretty much, we have a majority correct, but there are a lot of other people who are still sorting this out.That's fine.It takes some sorting out.It might take some drawing on your part, but I've-- but I just wanna highlight that it's important to sort this out.So if you don't get it clear in your mind sometime pretty soon, and certainly before the next exam, please be sure to talk to me about it.Or talk in the study group.Or ask somebody in here who seems to have it.Okay?Just a heads-up on that.Alrighty, so let's continue on with the knee.I stopped last time when we got to this slide because with only five minutes left, there were too many words on this slide for even me to deal with it.So what's important about all these words is a lot of detail that you can refer back to.This is kind of a summary on the cruciate ligaments.So on the inside of the tibiofemoral, joint inside that joint cavity, are two ligaments that cross.So they're called the 'cruciate ligaments.'One is anterior, and one is posterior.Anterior cruciate, posterior cruciate.So this describes all of the details of attachment of those two ligaments.Sometimes people remember them by 'LAMP'-- lateral attaches on-- excuse me.The anterior cruciate goes lateral to anterior-- this is complicated to me.I think there's an easier way to remember it, but you might see this somewhere.So, what do these ligaments do?Well, we can see that they're preventing rotation, hyperextension, and then something new.Anterior tibial motion.That's an anterior-posterior translation linear movement of the tibia underneath the femur.Now, we haven't seen that in other joints.They rotate or they glide.This joint is doing both.Okay.And interestingly, it looks like the anterior prevents excessive rotation, and the posterior prevents excessive rotation as well.So, that's complicated.But what is clearly different about the cruciate ligaments is the-- is how they prevent anterior-posterior movement of the tibia.And that's what we're gonna focus on.So, which one of these do you think might be the anterior cruciate ligament?Are you looking at an anterior or posterior view of the tibia?Get oriented first, and then make a guess.And what have you guessed?You have guessed... mostly number one is the anterior cruciate.I totally agree.This is the tibial tuberosity, so we're looking at the anterior proximal tibia, here.And isn't that convenient?The anterior cruciate ligament presents itself anteriorly when we're looking at the anterior aspect.Lovely.So nice when it makes sense.And there they are, labeled for you.Now, here's a random question.We talked about the medial and lateral collateral ligaments last time.Can you just sort out this anatomy, and figure out which one of these ligaments might be the lateral collateral ligament?A random-- not random.Something different, but still related to the knee ligaments.Okay, it looks like you've got that done.And please, please, please, please everybody, have clicked on the collateral.Yes, mostly.Good work.So again, and get oriented-- is this anterior or posterior?I do not see the tibial tuberosity, so this is a posterior view.I see the femoral condyles and the intercondylar notch, so that we know that's posterior on the femur.So I'm posterior.That really doesn't matter to answer this question, because what you have to notice is the fibula, and the fibula is lateral.So the ligament attaching to the lateral of these two bones is the lateral collateral, whether you're looking at it from an anterior or posterior view.So good work.So, hello people over here.This is medial; the medial side.There's the tibia.And what do we see here?We see the medial collateral ligament associating, actually, attaching to this structure.Remember that the medial meniscus has a relationship with the medial collateral ligament, okay?We talked about that last time.And what do you think this is?A few people clicked on this one.PCL.Posterior collateral ligament-- excuse me.Posterior cruciate.Thank you.I got the 'c' word, but the wrong one in there.Okay.And there's everything labeled for you.Moving on.Can you find the medial meniscus?Whoa.Challenge, but you can do this.You have lots of bits of information that you can bring to this question to sort this out.You can have memorized a fact that you could apply.You could have reasoned your way to this.And, I would put a star on this slide because this is something I-- I might ask you, on an exam.This one I might ask you.Okay.Okay, how are we doing?Oh, we're doing very well.Here we go.And... we don't quite know, but mostly we know.So you could have memorized, 'One of them is 'c'-shaped; one is more circular,' but the fail-safe one that relates to the function and the injury rate is this association right here.So here's the-- here-- let me back up.Here's a meniscus that has a relationship with a collateral ligament.Here is a meniscus that does not attach to a lateral ligament.There is the definitive diagnosis right there.The medial meniscus is attached to the medial collateral ligament.Burn that in.Okay.So what are these things; these stubs?Those are the cruciate ligaments.Oh-- I think I didn't-- let me just... cover it up.I'm not gonna cover it up, because the answer is here and you might wanna look at this later.Okay.And there we go.So which one of these stubs, ligament stubs, might be the anterior cruciate ligament?This is really hard.Is there anything here that helps you sort out anterior from posterior?Okay.We're working on this, but this one's hard.I'm gonna stop here, and do I have the answer?No.Okay, so we're gonna talk through this.We identify this as the medial collateral ligament, so that must mean this is the lateral collateral ligament over here.So the lateral collateral ligament attaches to what bony structure?I see some of you reaching towards your lateral aspect of your knee.Congratulations.That's the right thing to do.And if you're doing that, you're feeling the head of your fibula.So remember your fibula is a little bit posterior?You see it posterior?So this is posterior.The other thing that we will come to learn about is this is your patellar ligament, anteriorly.Now we haven't talked about that, so it's a little bit challenging of me to ask you this question at this point.But that's how-- this is definitely anterior, so this is the anterior cruciate ligament.And most of you got there.Good job.Alright.The anterior cruciate ligament gets injured much more often than the posterior cruciate ligament.This does not represent an inherent difference in strength between these two ligaments, but rather the exposure of the knee in our normal way that we move and interact with the environment.So it's more vulnerable to being loaded in a way that's gonna injure it.So it's-- it's not something different about them.It's just the jobs that they do.And, ooh, look at that nasty list.Are you gonna have to memorize that?No.Valgas loading, plus knee flexion, plus lateral tibble-- tibial rotation.So it's a complicated rotation, and we see this word: 'varus' loading.Remember what that was.Valgus loading was here.So it's somehow a loading this direction, but with lateral rotation of the tibia.Remember, we thought the knee only flexed and extended, so what's this rotation, this motion in the transverse plane, in the frontal plane?I told you that movements are complex.Or knee hyperextension and medial rotation of the tibia.None of these are good, right?None of these are good.Women are more at risk for these injuries than men, and there is an awful lot of biomechanical research going on for why that might be the case.Some of you might be looking at that in your article reviews.So what are we looking at here?We're looking at a femoral condyle.We're looking at a busted ACL, right?You can see that it's torn.Moving on.This is important, because this explains to you the role of the ACL and the PCL in preventing these translation, or anterior-posterior movements of the tibia underneath the femur.In the 'Draw It to Know It,' I ask you to draw this.And I really recommend that you do that, because once you draw this, you won't have to memorize anything about the ACL, 'cause you'll be able to figure it out from your drawing.If you get that picture in your mind, it really, really helps to understand all of this.So, let's get anterior sorted out.Tibia, tibial tuberosity helps us understand anterior.And, as we saw previously, you identified that the ligament that you see-- the cruciate ligament that you see from this anterior aspect is the anterior one.So what happens if I grab onto this tibia and pull it open-- pull it anteriorly, like I'm opening a drawer?It's gonna stretch that ACL, right?And similarly, if I pushed the drawer back into the dresser, past the front of the dresser, it's gonna stress-- stretch the PCL.So those are the drawer movements; the tibia opening and closing like a drawer.In the anterior direction and the posterior direction.And those movements particularly stretch the ACL and the PCL.So, we can take that information and use it clinically to find out about the integrity of these ligaments.Whooh, whooh.Do you think we have some laxity, in the ACL there?Okay.And what about here?PCL, right?That's-- that-- those are some knees that have some issues with their cruciate ligaments.So, what you just saw was clinical hands-on, demonstrating these drawer movements.And in one case, you saw one hand.In another case, you saw two hands.So the athletic trainers out there will-- will focus on the Lachman test, for example.What's important to me is that you understand the relationship of these ligaments and how they restrict these drawer movements.Uh, so one last dismal slide on injuries to the knee.Is this one the un-- so-called 'unhappy triad?'If you get a blow to the lateral side of the knee, with under-- if you can imagine the foot here is fixed in the ground with a pair of cleats, for example.That's a so-called 'valgus load.'It's going to in-- increase the medial knee angle and tear the medial collateral ligament.The medial collateral ligament is attached to the medial meniscus.So if this blow is bad enough, it's gonna rip the medial meniscus, and then once that knee joint is opened up, it can damage the ACL.So, this kind of a load can just wipe out three structures in the knee.That's the so-called 'unhappy triad.'And a varus load that is increasing this angle that previously we called 'genu valgum.'Has anybody experienced this 'unhappy triad' in here?Oh good.Aren't we lucky.Okay.So, we're not completely done.We've been spending a lot of time talking about that tibiofemoral joint, previously known as the 'knee joint.'But there's another joint here, between the patella and the femur.The patellofemoral joint.It's wrapped up in this synovial joint.So what's happened here is that-- the-- structures, the joint capsule has been cut, and it's been reflected downwards.So you can see that articular surface of the patella.And over here, you see a sagittal view.And you see this trabecular bone in the epiphyses of the femur and the tibia.But what's really nice about this is you can see the wedge shape of the menisci.Before, you just saw words that they said they were web-- wedge-shaped.But here you can really see that.So not-- look at this nice, thick hyaline cartilage on these joint surfaces.And so we're looking at that joint; that thick cartilage on the posterior aspect of the patella that's articulating with the distal femur anteriorly.And here is that ligament that you saw previously.That's the ligament that connects the patella to the tibia.So, the patellofemoral joint-- typically, the patella tracks in a, uh, healthy way between those femoral condyles.But, if someone has a large Q angle, so that that quadrisects-- -ceps muscle is pulling laterally on the patella while flexion and extension is going on-- that patella can drift laterally.And compress the cartilage on that lateral surface of the patella.So that's what you see going on here.You can see how the patella fits into that groove.So if you have a shallow notch, then, that patella can drift laterally.And that's gonna put excessive loads, then, on the lateral aspect of the posterior patella.In fact, um, these are my daughter's knees.Her patella actually subluxed.So she has an asymmetry in the depth of her notch here, and so this patella just jumped right out.So what we're-- that's kind of a-- that's related to a difference in the notching; an asymmetry here.But we're talking about the loading on this lateral-- posterior lateral aspect of the patella, so that when you flex your knees, you turn on your quadriceps muscle.So it's exerting force.So we have compression force, uh, really building up on that lateral aspect.So here is a view inside the knees of a former 230 student who had poor patellar tracking, so she developed something called 'chondromalacia patella.''Chondro': 'cartilage.''Mal-': 'bad.'Bad cartilage on her patella.So you can see what this looked like in her surgeon's arthroscope here.This fringe is not what we want a hyaline cartilage surface to look like.So the surgeon went in and shaved that off-- so it was nice and smooth after the surgery.Um, and this student chose not to climb the stairs in that classroom before the surgery, because that would cause excessive loading on this cartilage, and pain.Right?So this is chondromalacia patella.That's damage on the patella that happens subsequent to this poor patellar tracking.Okay.Finally, the patellar ligament connects the patella to the tibial tuberosity.There it is, and that's the-- the ligament that-- you needed to know where it was in the previous slide, so you could recognize that this was anterior, and this would be the ACL.So you can see here that this patellar ligament is actually-- belongs to the quadriceps muscle.Here's the sesamoid bone in that quadriceps tendon.So some people will call this the 'patellar tendon,' and not the 'patellar ligament.'Strictly speaking, it's connecting a bone to a bone, but it also is connecting the quadriceps muscle to the tibia, so both terms are used.Now what can happen in a-- in a adolescent, typically, or a child.This quadriceps muscle is attaching to the tibial tuberosity.And there's a lot of force in the tibial tuberosity.My brother developed this when he was playing-- he was catcher in a-- in his baseball team.So he spent a lot of time in a flexed position, with a lot of force in his quadriceps.And that was pulling on his tibial tuberosity that had not yet fused.Secondary ossification center.And so there's a-- hyaline cartilage in there that needs-- that-- that joint needs to close at some point.So this is what can happen.You can get irritation, swelling, separating.And this is called 'Osgood-Schlatter' disease.Um, growth plate is not closed, so it's vulnerable to damage, um, typically in boys, and causing swelling and tenderness and a noticeable bump.Anybody in here have that?You?Okay.So, we've got a-- uh, someone outside of the population norm here.Okay.A great case study opportunity for you.Okay.Um, so that's the knee.All about the knee.So let's talk about the ankle.Many, many people in here have probably sprained an ankle, right?Anybody in here sprained the same ankle more than once?Yep, yep.Okay, so let's find out what's going on there.So the ankle is sometimes called the 'talocrural joint.''Huh?''Talo-' for the talus; '-crural,' meaning the lower leg.So, the joint that does plantar flexion-dorsiflexion is actually the talocrural joint.So, let's look at that.Here is in the frontal plane: the tibia, medial malleolus, the fibula, the lateral malleolus.And the talus fits up inside those-- between those two malleoli, and that's sometimes called the 'ankle mortise;' thinking of a 'mortise and tenon' joint, if anyone's done woodworking.A dovetail joint is an example of a mortise and tenon joint.Um, so the talus rocks anteriorly-posteriorly in that ankle mortise, and we get dorsiflexion and plantar flexion.What we're going to come to distinguish within the next few minutes is that inversion and eversion happens below the talus.So at the subtalar joint, between the talus and the calcaneus.So earlier, you learned that, uh, the ankle dorsiflexed and planter flexed.But it's really the talocrural joint that does that movement, and the subtalar joint that does the inversion-eversion.Okay.And you can see why the talus is stuck in between the-- the two malleoli here.Alrighty.So, talocrural, dorsiflexion-plantar flexion, subtalar joint.So when we sprain our ankle, we're really damaging ligaments that control motion at the subtalar joint.Because spraining your ankle happens with excessive inversion, typically, right?Has nothing to do with the ankle, the talocrural joint.Alrighty.So let's look at this subtalar joint.Um, I didn't say this before, but I should have.You can find your talocrural joint axis by pointing your fingers at your malleoli, right?And that's where you're rotating around.Your subtalar axis is through the long axis of your foot, and you rotate around that.And that's what that figure is showing you: the actual orientation of that axis.And the foot rolls around that in inversion and eversion.So, here is a posterior view.And how do I know that?Well, it's conspicuously missing the metatarsals.That's kind of a big clue.But, what else do we see here?I see a great big malleolar fossa.That tells me I'm looking at the posterior aspect of the fibula.So we're looking at the rear foot here: the talus and the calcaneus.So, motions around the subtalar axis are best viewed from a view where we can see the rear foot, because we're gonna wanna be seeing how the calcaneus moves underneath the talus.And we see that most easily from a posterior view.Uh, click on the lateral malleolus.Okay, I just pointed out to you the great big fat malleolar fossa, so this is gonna be easy.But, aside from that, there's a hefty bone, and there's a slender bone.And so of course, the more slender one is the fibula, and we know the fibula is lateral.So, are you there?Are you there?You are-- oh, come on.Come on.There we go.Oh, yes.Good job.This is not the lateral malleolus.This is a ligament.The lateral malleolus is on the fibula.Okay.So, in inversion-- so we're oriented: medial-lateral posterior view-- when the calcaneus moves medially, we have inversion.You can see that in your own foot.And when the calcaneus moves laterally, we have eversion.Um, look for this when you're walking behind people on the Diag.Look at their rear foot.See what you can see.Are-- are people slightly everted when they walk?It's-- it's interesting.Take a-- take a peek at that.Again, avoid memorization.Understand the concept.And, when you apply it out there on the Diag, you can see it even in snow boots.Okay.The ligament that reinforces the medial aspect of the subtalar joint is the deltoid ligament.Okay.So what are we looking at here?I see a big hefty bone, so this must be the tibia.So I know I'm medial.I also see the sustentaculum tali.That's medial.Okay.So there is this deltoid-shaped-- this triangular ligament on the medial aspect.And that is the deltoid ligament.On the lateral aspect-- oh dear.Now we've got the names of three separate ligaments to learn.But conveniently, they're named exactly from their origin and their destination.So, there is a ligament that runs from the, uh, talus to the fibula.Here's the talus.Here's the fibula.Anterior talofibular.Similarly, a posterior from the fibula to the talus.And then one from the fibula to the calcaneus, okay?Love it when ligaments are named by where they attach.These three ligaments are on the lateral aspect.Duh.There's the fibula.Okay.Now, let's go back to our rear foot view-- this frontal plane view-- and figure out the job these ligaments are doing.So again, the slender bone distally is fibula, hefty bone is tibia, so I know this is lateral.Here's the talus.Here's the calcaneus.The medial ligament.Deltoid.And one of those lateral ligaments; which one might this one be?Fibula to calcaneus: done.So, most injuries at the ankle-- these ankle sprains are inversion injuries, where your foot inverts excessively, right?You've landed from a jump on somebody's foot.You have walked on a log like I did, and missed, and landed.You've stepped off of a doormat wrong, like I've done, and sprained my ankle.Etcetera.So it's these lateral ligaments that get torn when we invert.Which ligaments are stretched with excessive in-- so we're looking at a pair of feet, rear view motion.And what's going on here?Inversion of the left ankle.And so... what's getting stretched here?The lateral collaterals, right?Those three ligaments, that we saw earlier.And here's the picture.Calcaneus rotates medially, tears those lateral ligaments.Can you name any of those lateral ligaments?Alrighty.Here we go.Now, what do we know about the lateral ankle?The fibula is over there.Fibula, fibula, fibula.All fibula.Deltoid is medial.This is an example where if you understand that the fibula is lateral, you can make a really good guess of what the answer to this one might be, without memorizing anything.Okay.So the only thing wrong here is this '15.'The deltoid ligament would be stretched here.This movement, excessive eversion, is stretching the medial ligament, which is the deltoid.And here we go.Okay, let's sort out this picture.I see tibia.I see some fibrous connective tissue here, between the tibia and the fibula.I see a rotation of the cal-- calcaneus, taking with it the talus this time.The whole rear foot is rotating in this injury.When that happens, it pushes the lateral malleolus laterally, and this connective tissue-- uh, fibrous tissue-- this syndesmosis, between the tibia and the fibula, is tearing.So this is splitting the two bones apart.This is what a 'high ankle sprain' is.Nasty.Nasty business.'High' because it's going up higher.It's moving-- this tearing is going proximal.We're done with the foot and ankle.We can move-- we're done not only with the foot and ankle, but with all of the bones.We're gonna move on to muscles now.Okay.Oh, and it's time for-- does everybody have their computers working now?And you're-- you're ready to go?Let's make this easy: three.Okay.And holding at three.And okay, we'll move on to muscle.So.Everything we've talked about, to date, has been a connective tissue.Muscle is not connective tissue.Muscle tissue is an entirely different type of tissue.It comes from a different part of the embryo, and that's what we're going to talk about now.And what's interesting about muscle is that its mechanical properties, its strength, its-- how it responds to being stretched, depends on what the nervous system is doing.Because muscle is activated by the nervous system, and so the-- so force is not gonna be one answer, but it's gonna always depend on, 'Has the brain activated this muscle; turned it on?Is it making force?'So that's entirely different from connective tissue, which is a passive tissue.It doesn't-- it does what it does, just as a function of what it is.But muscle is different.It's active.So we have to peek inside muscle and see how force is getting generated.We're gonna spend a little time on the relationship between force and length in muscle, because that's different than what we saw for connective tissue.How muscle fibers are organized within an entity that we call a 'whole muscle' differs between particular muscles.And then, we have to attach muscles to bone, and understand how muscles function with respect to moving bones.So that's our job.I'm gonna start today.I'll finish next time.And in this set of lectures, I always have a little bit of room to spill over.So, even though we were supposed to start muscle today, and it's almost 9:30, there's-- we're not really time pressure-- there's enough time to do it all.Okay, so as I said, our attention previously has been completely in this bucket, and now we're changing buckets.So we're going over to look at muscle tissue.So what we call 'muscles' is muscle tissue, but that muscle tissue is connected to bones via connective tissue.So on either end of a muscle, there is tendon that's gonna transmit the force developed by muscle to bones, so bones can move.So muscle now is slightly ambiguous, because does that mean the muscle tendon unit, or does that mean just the muscle tissue?So, I will be careful in my language to make sure we know what we're talking about.Here is a picture of a bone with a tendon, and here is muscle tissue that is connected to the tendon, and in that way, is connected to bone.So remember that when you learned about tendons, there was an organizational structure that emerged that we called 'hierarchical.'So there were small things that were bundled to make bigger things, and those bigger things were bundled to make even a bigger thing: a whole ligament, or a whole tendon.So we've got that same arrangement here.The small thing is the muscle fiber.That has a connective tissue wrap around it.Then the muscle fibers are bundled into something called a 'fascicle,' and that's wrapped with something.And then we have the whole muscle, which is wrapped again.So, the fiber is wrapped with something called 'endomysium'; '-mysium' is the muscle, a root word in Greek.And-- from the Greek.And then 'endo-' is 'inside.'This bundling of muscle fibers is called a 'fascicle,' and that's wrapped with the 'perimysium,' 'around a fascicle.'And then finally, the whole muscle, the bundle of fascicles, is wrapped with the epimysium.Okay.So these are the relationships and the words you need to know over here.Were you awake?This question-- I don't expect that you would have memorized it from here to there.This question is to alert you to the fact that you do need to know this.Okay.It's a heads-up question.And, here we go.And lookie there.We were awake.Okay.Uh, here are some little videos that I'm gonna play.Um, you can guess the era when these were made.Here you see a muscle.Sorry about that.Do we think this model was made before computer graphics?But it really shows the point quite well.Okay, we get the point.Alright.Moving on.So what I'm-- why I'm showing you these videos is because understanding muscle is going to-- is something you might learn a lot about in physiology.And how muscles make force and how that changes with length is something you might learn about in biomechanics.So I'm just trying to get us all on the same page here.I'm not gonna ask you about the physiological details in this course, but you-- but we have different backgrounds, where you are in the room right now, in terms of this physiology.So I just wanna give you an overview of what's going on.And that's what these videos are for.Wow.There was a lot in there.So let me tell you what is-- what in that video was relevant to this course, and I'll be doing that over the next couple slides.So I need you to know what the sarcomeres are.The sarcomeres are these units stacked end-to-end, or in series, in a-- in a muscle fiber.And, how many sarcomeres are stacked in series tells you how long the muscle fiber is.Okay.So that's the little anatomical unit.And we know that that-- the sarcomeres is where the action happens, in terms of muscle force generation.Now, I also wanna say that the first line of text on this slide is really important.Because it tells you what a-- where the muscle cell is.Okay.The whole muscle fiber is the cell.The whole muscle fiber.That's the cellular level.Muscle fiber.So that means there are many, many sarcomeres.Many, many of those myofilaments inside the sarcomeres, inside one muscle cell.The muscle fiber, if you remember from previously, was wrapped with a connective tissue sheath called the endomysium, right?So the endomysium is wrapped around the muscle cells-- these muscle fibers.But that's not the only thing that wraps around the muscle fibers.There's also a membrane called the sarcolemma.That's the one that can be electrically activated by the nervous system and cause the contraction-- uh, sequence of events that you just saw.So what's important here is the muscle cell.The sarcolemma and endomysium wrap around that muscle cell.Inside the cell are lots of these little myofibrils, and the myofibrils are end-to-end-- are made of the end-to-end stacking of the sarcomeres.Okay?So the words are important on this slide; not I bands, Z lines, etcetera.That's for your physiology class.Um, I need you to know that the myosin-- that actin slides past the myosin molecules.And it's those cross bridges that are formed between those myofilaments that is responsible for the force that's generated in a muscle.So the more cross bridges that are attaching, the more force a muscle can make.So you get more cross bridges by having more myofilaments being bigger, and also having those cross bridges available to attach, like we saw in the movie.If you can't-- if you can't attach the actin to myosin, you can't make force.And it turns out that how long a muscle fiber is stretched is critical to how many cross bridges can attach.Can the actin reach the myosin?Can-- are the actin-- is the muscle fiber so short that the actin-- myofilaments are jammed up against each other, so they also can't attach to myosin.So we've-- so if the fibers are too long, they can't reach.They can't form cross bridges.And if the fibers are too short, the actin gets in the way of reaching the myosin and forming the cross bridges.And, as we saw, these sarcomeres generate force when they're turned on by muscle.So in this course, we're gonna consider that muscles are turned on full strength.'Go!'So the brain says, 'Go!Do everything you've got.'Right?Because that's what-- but, in real life, muscles are turned on partly.But we're gonna assume that it's full force production, or no force production.They're totally passive.So, here is a schematic dry-- diagram of what I just performed for you up here.Too long.Or cramped up.So let's start, uh, the Goldilocks story.Let's start with the best-size bowl, or the best-sized chair.I don't remember the Goldilocks story.But there were three-- there was a 'too big,' 'too small,' and a 'just right.'Let's talk about the 'just right,' and it's this one.In this case, the red myosin with the cross bridge diagonals can reach every single binding site on the blue actin.So at this length, muscles-- that muscle fiber can generate optimum force.The max force it can ever possibly make in the world is when it's at the 'b' length.At the 'c' length, it's stretched, so there are some cross bridges on the myosin that can't reach all the way to these potential binding sites on actin.So the force production at this length, even though the nervous system is saying, 'Go, go, go, go go,' the muscle is too long to actually make optimum force.And then we have the opposite case up top, when the muscle is really short.The actin interferes with the actin, and the actin covers some of the potential binding sites.So if you were to, in your mind, construct a graph that had muscle force production versus muscle fiber length, what do you think it would look like?Like that, maybe.Force production, length.Some just-right length, where all of the myosin heads can reach all of the actin cross bridges.Maxed out.But if you're too long, force drops off, because some of those cross bridges can't attach.And if you're too short, the force drops off because some of the cross bridges can't attach.This is the so-called 'active muscle' force length curve.That is, you turn on the muscle and you change its length and you measure the force.And the muscle is activated by the nervous system, so it's 'active muscle' force curve.Now, what if the nervous system-- what if you're sleeping, and your-- the nervous system isn't turning on your muscles, and you wanted to measure the force length curve of a muscle?Well, it would look like this.Which looks kind of like what we saw for connective tissues.So now we're just stretching those Z lines, A bands, and the tendons on either end.There's a little bit of the connective tissue around the perimysium, epimysium-- all that's connective tissue.So we see it doesn't resist-- here's force.Here's length.And it doesn't resist, it doesn't resist, until you get way past its optimal length, and then it starts resisting.This is passive because it's passive with respect to the nervous system.The nervous system is not activating the muscle, by all those mechanisms we're so glad we don't have to pay attention to in this course.So if you put it together, here's the active curve.Here's the passive curve and so, um, if you tried to stretch a fully activated muscle, it would follow this green line, because it's gonna add up the active and the passive.So what's important in this course?Which of these curves is important: the red one, the green one, or that aqua-colored one?The red one.That's the important one.But, I'm showing you these other curves just so you have a little bit of an appreciation of what muscles are doing.Oh, we already answered that.Okay.Uh, we have to do a little bit of mental heavy-lifting here.So, everything I've shown you so far is taking a muscle fiber out-- or, out of the body and attaching it into a machine, where an electrode stimulates it, and a machine stretches it.Kind of fundamentals.But what about us?What happens to the muscles in our body?Uh, how does a muscle length change?Well remember, muscles attach to bone to bone?So how long a particular muscle fiber is depends on what the joint is doing, right?Because the muscles are attached to bones.So we need to figure out: does a muscle get longer, or does it get shorter when our joints move?And the answer to this question is: it depends.It depends on which muscle, and which joint motion.So we're gonna start thinking through this with a muscle that might be like your biceps, right?Here's the elbow joint, here's the wrist, there's the shoulder.We're looking at a muscle on the anterior side of the joint, like my biceps.So what happens to the length of this elbow flexor when I flex my elbow?Or this-- this anterior muscle, when I flex my elbow?Do we think it's getting longer or shorter?When I-- this anterior muscle, does it get shorter or longer when I do this movement?Given that picture.If I move my forearm towards my upper arm, is that muscle getting longer or shorter?Shorter.Okay.So, if I draw a graph, here's elbow flexion in this direction.I know the muscle is shortening, so it's moving that-a way, on-- this graph is-- if you set this particular muscle at a certain length, what is happening to it, in terms of its force production?So the rest of the curve is just missing, here.But it's still that bell-shaped curve.Now, if that same muscle-- if I extend that joint, this anterior muscle is gonna get longer, so it's moving the other direction on this force length curve.All of that seems kind of complicated, but what I want you to take away from that is that we can't answer the question of how do-- how does muscle length change as joint angle changes-- except to say: it will.Because it's attached to the bones that are moving.And then, we'll-- which muscle are you talking about, and which direction of motion are you talking about.This is the same muscle, but whether it gets longer or shorter depends on whether the elbow is flexing or extending.So we're gonna be working with that concept a lot going forward.Okay.I am going to just introduce one more idea, and then we will be done for the day.So what do we see here?We ha-- seen different muscle architectures.So what is shown here are muscle fascicles, basically.And how they are arranged with respect to the tendons that they attach to bone.They can be, uh, parallel, going end-to-end.They can be fan-shaped.They can be like a trapezoid.They can be like a feather.And so each of these different muscle designs has a name.So let's look at some of those here.Longitudinal: this is the parallel one, from one attachment to the other.'Fusiform' is maybe how you have drawn muscles in cartoons.It's just slightly, uh-- the fibers bow out.And-- but, but they come together at either end.So I'm going to read something here.I found-- I didn't know that a journal existed, but I was just walking in a library, and I saw a journal of muscle foods, and I stopped, and I pulled one off the shelf and sat down and flipped through it.And I found this.Journal of Muscle Foods?So this is the effect of epimysial connective tissue.So we know what that is.That's around fascicles.On factors related to tenderness of beef: semitendinosus.So semito-- semitendinosus is one of your hamstring muscles, so this was an investigation into why-- how can we make cow hamstring muscles more tender, and therefore have a better market value?Okay?And somehow it's related to this epimysium.'Previous investigations have revealed consistently unacceptable levels of toughness in beef semitendinosus.'Eye of round.'It is possible that the fusiform architecture of the semitendinosus permits moisture loss through cooking as the epimysial connective tissue shrinks.'So it's gonna squeeze the juice out.'This investigation of the effects of the presence or absence of the epimysium demonstrated significantly greater shear values in samples with an intact external connective tissue layer.'Why does that matter?What is 'shearing?''Shearing' is what you do with your knife when you're cutting through meat!So we want low shear values.We don't want resistance to our knife.We want it to be tender.However, the reduction in shear with epi-- so they-- they thought, 'What if we just strip off this epimysium?You know, maybe-- maybe it would be more tender then.''However, the reduction in shear-- the tenderness-- with epimysium removal was small; less than five percent, and would not have been sufficient to bring a large proportion of hamstring steaks into the range of acceptable eating quality.The semitendinosus is atypical of skeletal muscle, with regards to its biomechanical function, and native elastin content.'So in the cow, in this muscle, besides collagen, there're also some elastin fibers.'And this possible contributor to toughness requires further investigation in order to develop a suitable method for tenderness improvement.'What you can do, with your anatomical knowledge.Work in food-- food research kitchens.Okay, so that's it for today.Um, let's see-- yeah.I'll-- I'll start with these other architectural designs next Monday.And, uh, good luck with the rest of your week.Enjoy the pretty snow.I think there's gonna be a lot of it on Friday.And see you Monday.