Okay.Uh, I've-- I've gotta start right now.So right after class?Okay.Okay, I'm back now.Good morning, everyone.If you are watching the Olympics, or they come up in your Facebook feed, or wherever it is that you might watch them, have you checked out the knees in those mogul skiers?The-- it's intense what those knees have to take.So, some mighty strong ligaments there, in the deep knee flexion, and powerful forces at the knees.Also, uh, the figure skaters seemed to have some problems in the team competition that came first.There were a lot of falls, partic-- er, the-- and just people not performing well.Well, it turns out that they're having to skate at 10:00 in the morning, which is just not how they usually skate at all.It's usually in the evening.So it's messing up their training schedules and their sleep schedules.So anyway, it just reminded me a little bit of what it's like to be in this room at 8:30 in the morning.People are maybe not quite ready for the day.Okay.So, that being said, let's move on and finish up muscle tissue, so we can start learning about some actual muscles.And we left off last time talking about designs of muscles; how the muscle fibers and fascicles approach the tendon, the arc-- so-called muscle architecture.And we left off talking about how the fusiform shape of beef semitendinosus might be related to its tenderness.But-- and so, when I went out for dinner on Saturday night, I got a steak.It just reminded me about eating beef.Okay.So anyway.It's gonna be hard to keep this train on the track today, apparently.But, we've got quadrilateral here, parallel, but in the shape of a-- a quadrilateral structure.Fan-shaped or triangular, anybody might recognize this as the grand pectoralis major muscle; uh, fan-shaped broad attachment on one end, narrow attachment on the other end.Alrighty.So let's talk about the particular design feature when fascicles approach the tendon at an angle.We call those-- that, the angle, the 'pennation angle.'We measure it from the orientation of the fibers with respect to the tendon.'Pennation,' 'like a feather.'And so, muscles can be described as 'unipennate,' pennate on just wide, or 'bipennate.'Here's a central tendon, and so there's an angle on-- on both sides.Or multipennate.So in this particular muscle, which you might recognize as your deltoid muscle, there are lots of tendons inside this muscle, and the fibers are approaching all of those tendons at different angles.Multiple angles, multiple tendons.Yeah?Oh.I can.I wonder how long you had to wait for me to see your hand.Um, that's over here.Got a bit-- oh, yeah.I'm out there now.Okay.Thank you.So, that is the multipennate muscle.Complex design.So, different designs: what for?Just a job for you to do in Movement Science 230, to recognize these designs?Or are these designs associated with a function?So.Here is an example of two muscles with about the same volume of muscle tissue.So my question for you is: which of these muscles makes more force?We have a longitudinal design here, and a unipennate design over here.So, what is your vote?Click on the teeny-tiny muscle, that you think-- I'll show you these designs again.Which one of them do you think is stronger?Same amount of muscle tissue.The short fibers at an angle, or the long fibers, parallel to the line of pull of the muscle.Oh, I know why this is so small.There we go.Alright, let's see what you have decided.Basically, it's a, 'I don't know' type of answer.So that's fair, at this point, because we haven't talked about how design influence force production.So let's go find out why this design with the short fibers at an angle might produce more force.So we have to go back to understanding how force is made in a muscle.And what you see here are many, many sarcomeres in series, and here you see sarcomeres in parallel, schematically.So, if-- the force produced by the sarcomeres on the left there-- if you, with those two arrows, this force is the same everywhere, here.So here, we have twice the force because they're in parallel.So we have more cross bridges across the muscle than in series.So it turns out that when you have more fibers parallel to each other, rather than in series, the muscle can make more force.Now, what's an easy way to remember this?When you think of what your arm looks like before a strength training-- uh, no, I won't say that.Uh, somebody who has bigger muscles, we think of as having a stronger arm.Right?That's because bigger muscles are more muscle fibers in series.More myofilaments.I'm sorry, I just said that wrong.In parallel.So this is how we assess how many myosin fil-- myofilaments are interacting with those actin myofilaments and making force.Because cross bridges make the force.We measure the cross-sectional area parallel to the tendon there.Excuse me-- perpendicular to the tendon they're attached to.So if you see all of these fibers, the cross section measured perpendicular to the fibers is a much smaller cross section than the cross section over here on 'b,' measured perpendicular to the fibers.So there are actually more fibers pulling in parallel.There are more myofilaments in this cross-sectional area with the-- uh, unipennate design on the right.So we call that particular cross-sectional area the 'physiological cross-sectional area.'So you have to measure how many sarcomeres are in parallel by measuring perpendicular to the line of pull of those sarcomeres.So then, why would you ever have a parallel-design muscle?Is there any advantage to having-- in this case-- long fibers in parallel, as opposed to short fibers at an angle?Well, we're gonna see that in a moment, but here I've just said in words, in printed words, but I've-- what I’ve been saying out loud.So even though these muscles have the same thickness, or girth, if you measure the cross-sectional area in the physiologically meaningful way, which is perpendicular to the fibers, the muscle on the right can produce more force.So therefore it's stronger.It has more cross bridges pulling in parallel.Okay.So, here's what it looks like in terms of the mechanical properties, where we have force on the y-axis, length on the x-axis.And remember we talked about the 'active force' length curve of muscle?So that's what we're looking at here.So a muscle with a larger cross-sectional area can produce more force.This is the mechanical consequence of those two designs that we just looked at.So, here are two muscles that make the same amount of force.But, they seem to have a different spread in the joint angles over which they can make that force.In other words, over a range of muscle lengths.So one of these muscles appears to be able to make force over a broader range of muscle lengths, which translates to a broader range of joint angles.What is the design characteristic that's different between these two muscles that's gonna account for how this-- these-- their mechanical properties look on this graph?And the answer to that is: length.So, muscles with longer fibers.Here's the advantage to having longer muscle fibers.As I move a joint through a certain range of muscle-- of-- certain range of motion, a muscle that's attached to the bones that are moving at that joint; they have longer fibers.They're getting stretched relatively less.Therefore, they can stay up near the top of their force length curve over more joint angles.So we get a broader force length curve in muscles with longer fibers.So, muscle 'b' is gonna have longer fibers than muscle 'a.'So let me explain this figure to you.Here you have a muscle on the left, 'a,' that has four sarcomeres in series.Of course, this is fiction, because sarcomeres are much, much shorter than what it appears here.The muscle shown on the right is half the length.In this case, it has two schematic sarcomeres in it.So the difference here is the actual length of these arrows.So a muscle that has more sarcomeres can actually shorten more in terms of millimeters than can a muscle fiber that is shorter.A muscle can shorten to about 50 percent of its muscle fiber length.So if we have fibers that are a meter long, as opposed to ten centimeters long, that's gonna make a huge difference in terms of, literally, how many centimeters those two different muscles can shorten.And that's happening-- muscles are changing length, remember, when we move joint angles.Yes.That's correct.Thank you for pointing that out.Wouldn't that have been nice if I had changed the labels so they would be consistent?These are not pictures of the muscles that we saw in the previous one.Thank you so much for bringing that up.The 'a's and 'b's here are arbitrary in these slides.Very important.Thank you.So now, 'a' and 'b' will mean something.Here is muscle 'a,' and here is muscle 'b.'And here are force length curves, one of which is associated with 'a,' and one of which is associated with 'b.'Can you sort this out, now 'a' and 'b' does mean something?Which curve belongs to muscle 'a'?Okay.And you have made your choices.And you are convinced muscle 'a' is lower right, but let's figure out why the correct answer is upper left.Muscle 'a,' upper left.Oh, sh-- really?Really?Okay.You're correct.So apparently, I-- I'm struggling with 'a's and 'b's here, going from one slide to the next.So which curve belongs to muscle 'a'?What do we-- before we even get to the curves, let's look at the design over here.Which one of these has a bigger cross-sectional area?'B.'Bigger physiological cross-sectional area, so we know that it's gotta be this-- this curve.The upper left curve must be muscle 'b.'Just based on physiological cross-sectional area.But, we also know-- we see different-- these fib-- these muscles must have different fiber lengths, because the-- the spread of that force length curve is different.So we would expect this muscle, which we've just identified as 'b,' to have shorter fibers, because its force length curve is narrower, with respect to joint angles.So let's go back up here and check.Do we think muscle 'b' has shorter fibers?It should.Yeah.So both of our criteria for upper-- for this tall curve-- the tall curve belongs to muscle 'b.'Okay.Good job.Muscle 'a'-- wait, wait, wait.Did I get this wrong?Apparently, I'm the one who can't wake up this morning.Let's sort this out.Muscle curve belongs to-- muscle 'a' belongs to lower right.Yes.So you're-- you're correct here.Good work.Are you confused?I've got yes and no's.The majority are correct in this answer, here.Muscle 'a' has long fibers and less cross-sectional area than muscle 'b.'So this lower curve belongs to muscle 'a,' which is what you chose in the answer here, the majority.So good work.Now are we on board?Now are we all there?Okay.Yeah.Yeah.Yeah, so the muscle fibers themselves are sarcomeres in series, in-- in all of these muscles, end-to-end.That's what makes how long a muscle fiber is, is how many sarcomeres it has in series?In parallel is how many are stacked next to each other.How many parallel fibers are there in the direction that is important, which is, that we measure perpendicular to the fibers.A little bit slippery of a notion, but it sounds like you are-- are getting it.So what does this translate to?All of our muscles have different designs, so these are muscles, the names of which you will learn next week.These are muscles in-- on the posterior and anterior aspect of the trunk.And we're looking at their physiological cross-sectional area versus fiber length.So some of the muscles have quite long fibers.Thirty centimeters.And some are very short.Five centimeters.But here's one that has short fibers and is very thick.And here're some short-fibered ones that are thinner.Okay?So there's a lot of variability in muscle design.So an important aspect of muscle, which you'll spend quite a bit of time with, are: where do the muscles attach?And we can talk about muscle attachments on bone, but we designate the two ends of the muscles differently.We call the attachment on when-- one end of the muscle of bone, its origin.And the other attachment on the other end of the muscle, its insertion.Mostly this will make sense, because usually the insertion is distal.In the trunk, it can be hard to sort out origin and insertion sometimes, but one convenient way to think about that is, when a muscle is pulling, which bone is going to move.Okay.Which-- so, and we would call that the or-- the insertion.So, this particular muscle has an origin on the coracoid process, and an insertion on the humerus.So when a muscle contracts, it's gonna be pulling with equal force on both ends.It's gonna try to pull both bones together.And if we think about that in terms of a force vector, then we can talk about the line of pull of the muscle.It's-- that attaches the origin to the insertion, so we call a fictitious line drawn between the origin-insertion the 'line of pull' of the muscle.So in this case, let's say this is the elbow.This is a forearm bone.That's the humerus, and there is the muscle line of pull.I have put the arrow pulling this way, from insertion to origin.Sometimes there's a broad attachment, like in this case, and so the line of pull is the middle of the origin to the middle of the insertion.Now why mess around with an idea like line of pull?Well, that's important when we try to figure out how much torque a muscle produces.Because we've spent all this time talking about muscle tissue and how muscle tissue produces force.But the job of muscles is really to move the bones, and often, the bones move in a rotational, uh, type of motion.So the force that is important when you're trying to do a rotation is called torque.Really?So muscle force produces a torque on the bones, and it-- and in terms of strength-- uh, in-- when we're moving, what's important is the amount of torque a muscle can make.So force is applied when the muscle is activated by the nervous stition-- nervous system on the bones, and then the functional attribute is the amount of torque that that muscle force produces.So, hello physics.What do we know about torque?We know that it is 'force times the moment arm,' right?That's how we know how big a torque is.So, we measure the moment arm of a particular muscle from-- it-- the joint center to a-- it's the perpendicular to the line of pull of that muscle.Okay.So we could have a muscle that has the same force, but if we move the moment arm farther away from the joint, it's going to produce more torque, be more effective, have more mechanical advantage.Well, how do you move-- how do you change the moment arm of a muscle?Well, surgeons can do it.Sometimes in plastic surgeries, after a trauma, or a tumor resection, surgeons have to reattach muscles.Or in tendon transfer procedures, surgeons actually have to think about this concept when they choose a reattachment site for the tendon of a muscle.So in most of our daily lives, it's-- we can consider that the muscles have a fixed attachment point, and the moment arm that goes along with it.So you do need to remember this definition of what a moment arm is.It's this perpendicular distance from the joint center to the muscle line of pull.So, our movements-- let's say we're considering movements of the elbow in the flexion and extension direction.So, which muscles are going to make torque in the direction of flexion, and which muscles make torque in the direction of extension?So this is something that's a little bit different in this biological system than if you were designing a robot to do a task.Speaking of robots-- I guess I spent time watching the Olympics-- did you see those drones?The drone light display?That was really cool.Oof.Okay.That was a tangent.Back to business.So, muscles are going to try to shorten when the nervous system activates them.They're gonna try to pull their insertion towards their origin.So in the case of this particular red muscle, attached in the way is shown here, the only thing that muscle can ever do is make flexor torque.Because it's always-- its force is always gonna be in the direction shown, and it is always going to try to flex that joint.That muscle force will always be creating, um, flexor muscle torque.So we can't put muscles in reverse.Where's the extensor muscle torque going to come from?Well, we have to add another muscle into the system.And in fact, the extensor muscles are on the other side of the joint.Muscles are one-way force generators.So if you want to have torque in the other direction, you have to add a whole other set of muscles on the other side of the joint.Flexors, extensors.Biceps, triceps.You know from the gym.Those do very different jobs, and you have to do different movements to strengthen them.So I've asked a question.Here's a blue muscle.And when the blue muscle shortens it's gonna pull-- imagine pulling the olecranon process towards the posterior side of the humerus.And that causes an extensor muscle torque.The function of a muscle-- that is, if a muscle is categorized as a flexor, or if it is categorized as an extensor, depends on this torque business.Which way does it try to move the joint?Which direction does it generate torque in?So in this case of the elbow, wrist, and shoulder up high, muscles anterior to the elbow joint are your flexors.And muscles posterior to your elbow joint are your extensors.That's unique.If we had a little torque motor, we'd just have it run in one direction or the other, but the body isn't designed like that.Muscles on opposite sides of the joint have opposite functions.So this joint axis is piercing the screen here, so we have muscles anterior or posterior to the joint.And we categorize all of the muscles that might be anterior as flexors, and all of the muscles posterior as extensors.So that ne-- means, bottom line, we need a pair of muscles to control every degree of freedom.So if you think about the shoulder, there're three degrees of freedom there.At the elbow, where there's one degree of freedom, there's one motion.One axis of rotation at the elbow.We need a pair of muscles, flexors and extensors.So, speaking of the shoulder, how many muscles min-- at minimum do we need to control movements at the glenohumeral joint?Okay.And hopefully you have chosen 'six.'Thank you.There are three degrees of freedom at the shoulder.Flexion-extension is one.Frontal plane ab- and adduction.Transverse plane, medial and lateral rotation.So we're gonna need a muscle for each of those directions of motion.Okay.Here's an idea that is-- can be very challenging.And I'm gonna talk about it, but we'll talk about it again many times as we move through the muscle section.When muscles generate force while shortening, we call this 'concentric muscle action.'So the muscle is trying to shorten here.It is trying to flex the elbow, and the elbow is actually flexing.That's called 'concentric.'Everything lines up.Shortening a muscle while it's active.Is there any other way for a muscle to behave?Yes.A muscle can-- uh, uh, well.This is what happens when I pick up my coffee cup, right?But if I were to try to pick up, oh, that curling stone.I don’t know how much those weigh.Does anyone know how much a curling stone weighs?Any Canadians in the room?I don't know, but they look heavy.I'm not sure I could pick it up so easily.So, why am I saying that?I'm saying that because this cup of coffee doesn't weigh very much.In other words, gravity is not resisting me-- resisting me flexing my elbow very much.My biceps can handle this very easily.But if I were to pick up a curling stone, or if someone were to hand me one, maybe that curling stone is so heavy that even though I'm trying with all my might and contracting my biceps, my elbow might end up extending 'cause I'm not strong enough to lift it.So even though my muscle is contracting and generating muscle force in the flexion direction, external forces might be acting on my limb, uh, that are so big that they're bigger than the muscle forces and my joint actually moves in the other direction.That's what I'm trying to say here.In this case, this muscle is trying desperately to adduct this individual's arm.But, if this person is pressing up with more force, the joint might end up moving into the abduction direction.And that's what's shown here, where the muscle force is less than the resistance force applied by the hand.And the arm starts actually moving in the other direction.So the muscle is contracting, but it's getting longer while it's contracting, because the joint is moving in the opposite direction.And that is called 'eccentric action.'So, in the case of me and the curling stone, my biceps would be trying to flex my elbow with this flexor torque.But if the external force is acting on my limb at the same time, gravity pulling on that curling stone, I might actually end up with an elbow extension, even while I was trying to flex.And that's called an eccentric action.So the muscle is generating force while it is lengthening.So that's why I'm using the word 'action' rather than 'contraction' because 'contraction' sounds like something shortens.'Action' says the muscle is activated by the nervous system, and whether it lengthens or shortens depends on what else is going on in the world.Hello Arnold Schwarzenegger, from when I was a graduate student.So what do we call that?He's definitely contracting his muscles to make them look bigger, but he's not moving.So this is a case where muscles are generating force.But the biceps and triceps are generating the same amount of force, and so his elbow joint doesn't move at all.So these air muscles active without any lengthening at all.And we call that 'isometric action.'Same length.So we have concentric action, when a muscle is active, making force, and shortening.Eccentric action when a muscle is making force.It's activated by the nervous system making force, but lengthening while it's making the force.And then isometric, when it's not changing length at all.Muscle can have more than one function.So, these muscles-- uh, or muscles can-- the-- more than one muscle contributes to a function.These are the so-called 'adductor muscles.'When they shorten, they're going to pull the hip into a position of adduction, so there's more than one.And you can see that there are some different fiber lengths here, and some different cross-sectional areas.So tha-- the muscles are quite, uh, unique in their design, but they all share this function.So we would call all of these muscles 'synergists,' because they're buddies.They're all trying to adduct.They act synergistically when the job is to adduct.So if our job-- if-- if our goal of our task is to adduct the hip, then we would call the adductors the 'agonists.'Think-- you could think of them as the protagonists in literature.The antagonist is the group on the other side, the abductors.So if we're trying to adduct, and we're activating our adductors, the abductors are antagonists.They're on the opposite side of the joint.To control movement, because muscles sometimes-- very often-- have more than one function, the brain sometimes has to turn on multiple muscles to get the desired action.So here's muscle 'a.'That muscle has two-- when it's activated, it does two things.It retracts the scapula and upward rotates the scapula.Muscle 'b' downward rotates the scapula and retracts it.So if what I want is powerful retraction of my scapula, for whatever the movement calls-- if that's what the movement calls for, I could turn on both of these movements, and the upward rotation in muscle 'a' would neutralize the downward rotation in muscle 'b.'But I'd get a double dose of retraction force by doing this.So you can see how smart the brain must be.It has to choose which muscles, based on the mechanics of each muscle, and the-- there's a redundancy in terms of the amount of muscles available.So our brains have to know a lot about our physical plant in order to control movement.Okay, that's it for muscle.Just general, abstract concept about muscle.And I'd like to actually start and talk about the jaw-- the muscles of mastication.So I'd like to go a little bit longer today, and move into, um-- uh-- oh, I know what this is.Uh, move into head, neck, and trunk muscles.You ready to dive in and learn some specific muscles?Okay.So, I will say that the muscles that you're about to learn are the hardest ones in the whole body.And that's because you're not as aware of them.You can see your limbs more easily, but you can't really see what's going on on the posterior side of your trunk.And so, uh, they're a little bit more fictional.You might be less acquainted with them moving in.So it's a good news-bad news.Bad news is these are hard; good news is the rest of them are much easier.Okay.Oh, and here's a hint as to why they might be hard.Look at all these words.Transversospinales muscles?Yikes.That will make sense next week.Today, we're just gonna talk about the muscles controlling the jaw.I wanna give you a heads-up on something.As you have seen from the first exam, I don't give you pictures of the bones and say, 'What's this landmark?'And I won't do the same thing with muscles.'What's this muscle?'Except in cross sections.Okay.So some of the cross sections that I show you in lecture are candidates for exam questions.So, here is an introduction to what jobs need to be done by muscles controlling the temporomandibular joint.We've gotta elevate and depress; we've gotta protract and retract the temporomandibular joint.Now, okay.Here is something I learned recently about this drawing in a Da Vinci notebook.So Da Vinci dissected to figure out how the body works.But he did many other things, as you well know.He happened to be engaged in an architecture task.He was designing a building.And then, he started working on some anatomy.And so, this view-- so he-- he came up with the idea of showing the architecture and the different-- different planes of showing a building.So when he came across a skull, he did that for the first time.So you can thank him for what's commonpla-- commonplace to us about looking at anatomy in these planes.But he was the first person to put that together.Isn't that interesting.Okay, moving on.Where do you think a muscle that elevates the jaw would insert?So you have to remember what that insertion means, and what jaw elevation movement is.Okay.Anybody who clicked anywhere on the mandible wins.In jaw elevation, the mandible is moving.The insertion end of a muscle is typically on the bone that's gonna be moving.So the insertion has to be on the mandible.This is correct also.On the mandible anywhere.Okay.'Muscles that elevate the jaw insert on the mandible.'There it is in print.So, here are some of the muscles that we're gonna learn the names of.They're all attaching to the mandible.So, what would you say is the origin, and what would you say is the insertion of this muscle?Okay, you're still working.I learned something very interesting about this muscle by reading someone's article review.This muscle is called the 'masseter.'And you can see it right here, if you clench your teeth.And rub back and forth.You can feel that masseter muscle.This one, right here.So, in someone's article review, they were looking at Botox injec-- injections, a neurotoxin, and they were looking at the effect on forces applied by this muscle on bone density in the mandible.But apparently, sometimes Botox injections in this muscle are used for cosmetic reasons, and I'm trying to figure out what that would-- this was not the point of the article, but it made me think why-- why, why would this be cosmetic?And maybe it just makes you look like you have higher cheekbones, if this muscle atrophies a little bit?I mean, that's-- anyway.Um, that was interesting to me.So, what have you said about this?Uh, temporal.We don't know whether that's a origin and insertion.Oh, zygomatic arch to mandibular ramus.Origin-insertion.Oh yeah.So we've got-- so, why I-- so, you've-- why I asked you this question is because of two reasons.One, you've sorted out which end is the origin and which end is the insertion.But also, you can see that there's a difference in precision in how you can describe an origin and an insertion.Is it just the mandible?Or is it the angle of the mandible?Is it the angle in the ramus of the mandible?Is this the zygomatic-- the temporal portion of the zygomatic bone, and the zygomatic portion of the temporal bone?Or is it the zygomatic arch?So, as you read and think about this, there's a-- different levels of detail.And so what I want to say to you now is that the level of detail I put on the slides is the level of detail I want you to know.Okay.Sometimes it will be more simplified than what you might read in the book for this class, or in Netter's Anatomy, or when you google it online.So, just to come to a common place, we'll use what I put on this slide as the level of detail that we're going to talk about these origins and insertions in.So here's the masseter muscle, and what have I said here?Ooh.Ramus and angle of the mandible on the lateral surface.So apparently that's important to me, that level of detail.And, um, what it's going to do is pull the angle of the mandible upwards towards the zygomatic arch.That's gonna close the mouth or elevate the jaw.Use the na-- oh.So what do you need to know about masseter?Everything, on the slide.You need to know its origin and insertion, and its function.So for all of the muscles that we learn, that's the job.Origin and insertion, and function.Flashcards, quizlet are your friends.Okay, use the name of the bony attachment of origin to name this muscle.You're seeing it here for the first time.What would you name it?Based on where it attaches.Some muscles are named conveniently in this way.And let's see what you've got.We've got here... temporalis.Yes.Temporal zygomatic.Okay.Sphenoid muscle.Okay.Sphenoid muscle.Oh, yeah.Somebody remembers where that sphenoid bone was.And we've got some frontal-- excuse me.Frontal bone.Okay, so the actual name is the temporalis.And here it is.Large attachment on the parietal, but it's covering the temporal bone, mostly.But look what I've said: 'lateral skull.'So I don't need you to know, in this case, all those bones that it attaches on-- 'lateral skull' is good enough.What is important is the particular insertion site.Coronoid process of the mandible.That great big coronoid process is there for temporalis to grab onto it, and a-haul the mandible up, so the mouth closes with a lot of force.This muscle elevates and also retracts.Look at these fibers posteriorly in temporalis.They're almost at a 90-degree angle from these anterior fibers, so these fibers are gonna pull the mandible in the retraction direction.So it has two functions.What is all this goop on the ramus of the mandible here?This is the parotid gland.None of you in here, I trust, have had mumps, because you got shots for that.I had mumps before there were shots for that.So, this swells up the parotid grand-- gland swells up big, so mumps are-- have to do with this gland right here.Okay, so here comes some work.Medial and lateral pterygoid muscles.'P' is silent; 'pterygoid' is a spelling challenge.So what are we looking at here?The masseter has been reflected, cut and reflected back, to expose the lateral surface of the angle of the mandible.There's been a little section-- a little cut-out of the mandible, so we can look deep.And here are the pterygoids, deep to the zygomatic arch, which has been removed, and deep to the mandible.That's where we find these little pterygoids.By the way, we've got a nice picture of the temporal bone again here, that's-- was covered up completely by temporalis.So this is the view of the pterygoids.This is standing on your tongue and looking anteriorly, right?So you can see where these pterygoids attach.The medial one is named 'medial' because it attaches on this side of the sphenoid bone, the wing of the sphenoid, the medial side.And the lateral attaches on the lateral side of that bone.So that's where their names come from.And there's no way you could even begin to understand this without looking at the picture this way.So we're gonna focus on the insertions of these muscles to try to tell them apart, rather than this detail of the origins.So it looks like the lateral pterygoid is attaching near the mandibular condyle, and the medial pterygoid is attaching near the angle of the ramus, but on the medial side.Isn't that convenient, for remembering its name?So the medial pterygoid attaches on the sphenoid bone; the details you saw in the previous picture.And we've seen another muscle that attaches on the ramus and angle of the mandible.The masseter attached on the lateral side of the bone.The medial pterygoid attaches in the same place, but on the medial side of the bone.And this muscle pulls up on the mandible, and closes the mouth, or elevates it.So that's medial pterygoid.Here's lateral pterygoid.And the zygomatic arch has to be removed so we can see the details of these muscles.So what's the function of the lateral pterygoid, do you think?What's its job?Okay, let's see what we've got.And... you are correct.I'm gonna say it for you now.That's lateral pterygoid.Isn't that pretty?Okay.So, protraction-- remember when we're chewing, we're-- we're moving our teeth around a lot, to-- to crush the food, and this is part of that function.I'm gonna back up here.Let's look again at the temporomandibular joint, so we can see that meniscus inside that synovial joint.A nice view of that.Okay.Here's lateral pterygoid, formally met.Attaches-- has origin also on the sphenoid bone, on the lateral side of it, of that plate.And it attaches, for its insertion, on the neck of the mandible, very near to the condyle.What are the two muscles that inset on the angle of the mandible?Here's one and here's one.And you can just tell me what those are.Masseter, medial pterygoid.Lateral side, medial side.On the same place on the bone.So can you find lateral pterygoid for me in this picture, please?How about if we-- well, good job, those of you in the room.Okay.And where is a muscle that elevates and retracts the mandible?So, before you answer this question, notice that you have two ways to approach it.You can have memorized a muscle, and pulled that muscle out of your mind, out of your memory banks.Or you could look at the picture and figure it out.Look for the design and attachments of the muscle that would produce retraction and elevation.Okay.Well, we've got a little bit of a scattered field here.But it's temporalis, that has that function.These fibers pull up on the coronoid process.These fibers pull posteriorly on the coronoid process.So we have elevation and retraction.So this is the job so far.Can you name the muscles that might protract?Can you name the muscles that might retract?Can you name the muscles that elevate?So as you're learning the muscles, you need to learn the individual muscles, but you also need to learn what functional group they belong to.So that could be two sets of flashcards; uh, one for individual muscles, each individual muscle.Another for functional groups.Notice that we don't have depression here.The muscles that depress the jaw-- we're just gonna let gravity depress the jaw for us so far in 230, because some of the muscles that depress the jaw-- we're not gonna go into the details of the facial muscles or muscles involved in swallowing, and some of those are involved in depressing the jaw.So we just aren't gonna go to that level of detail in here.But if you're thinking about speech therapy, of course that will become particularly relevant to you.Or otolaryngology, for example.Okay.So, here is what I'm gonna suggest that you do: draw, draw, draw.The-- you can see that we're coming up against a mountain of muscles to learn, so-- and the idea is to get the picture in your head of these muscles, and the picture in your body.So, as-- whenever possible, feel your body.If you say-- if you feel your masseter and trace its attachments, and say the name out loud, that's a way to study.Drawing the masseter on a picture of a skull-- in the 'Draw It to Know It's, I provided some drawings of the bones.So you can just print those out and draw the muscles.And then there's just rehearsal.Rehearsal, rehearsal, rehearsal.Those flashcards in your pocket, at all times for the next two months, um, will help you a lot.So I am going to stop here, because we'll start with the neck muscles next time.And this is just a really good stopping point, in between the jaw muscles and the trunk muscles.If you have questions-- oh!I didn't ask the question of the day, did I?Oh.Let's-- oh, oh oh.Let's get that done.Where did I put it?I don't know where I put it.Um, uh, uh-- ooh.What?Thirty-eight?Slide 38?Did I skip it?I thought I put it in right before-- oh, isn't this a boring waste of time.Where did I put it?No, it wouldn't be that one.Uh, hang on a second.Let me do this, so you can get credit for having been here today, please.Thirty-eight?But why doesn't that match my...?Thirty-eight is not it.Okay.So, I'm sorry.I'll quickly, quickly do this.There we go.I wonder if it'll let me edit while we're still recording.Maybe that's the problem.Uh, I'll make it into thirty-eight.That activity.Okay.So it'll be thirty-nine.Come on, come on, come on.Haste makes waste here.View.Wow.Thank you for your patience.There we go.There it is.Alrighty.Who has a number they wanna say?Somebody do the work.What did I see?Five!A five.Okay.Now we are done.Type in 'five' and we'll be on our way.I only have eleven.There're more of you here than eleven.What's up?Oh.Oh, are we really going to have to do a piece of paper?Uh, I guess we have to do a piece of paper.I-- 'cause it's-- oh no!Yeah, it's not working.So if you could give me pieces little pieces of paper, that way I can give you your five points.Five.Sorry about this screw-up.Enjoy an extra fifteen minutes or so in your morning.And I can answer questions for you.Yes.