Good morning, everyone.We have another cold winter morning.I wanna talk to you about the course in overview right now.So, you had the first exam experience.And this was interesting to me because typically on the first exam, in the past, without GradeCraft, always six-- two-thirds of the class gets an 'A' or a 'B.'Sixty-six percent, 67 percent.This time, 49 percent got 'A's and 'B's.So something is shifting, and the mean is normally in the low 80's-- percent.And it was lower.It was 76 percent on this exam.So, I don't know what to make of that.It could be that you're relying on those other points, which-- to get to where you want to be in the course.That's fine.That's your choice.That's the whole point of all of this.Okay, so, any questions about GradeCraft ?I had promised that I would do a demo in class today, but my student log-in password is failing for some reason.So I can do that on Wednesday, so I can show you what this looks like as a student.But for now, what I'm going to do is open a new tab.And maybe you figured this out already.I just figured it out last week, but if you go to GradeCraft.com, then you get a whole window to work with.So instead of being stuck in that little frame in Canvas, you get a whole window to work with, okay?So, let's look at what might be relevant.So far, 100 percent of the students in this class are failing, but that's to be expected.I hope you're not too upset about that, because there haven't been enough points offered yet to even get on this board.And here is the distribution of the whole class.So a couple of students are particularly high because I've already graded their Lit Review Two.So they've-- they've accessed more points.So you can see where you are when you log in as yourself.You'll see an arrow that shows you where you are in this distribution of points.If you are in this '400 or below' area, please come and talk to me, and let's see what we can do to help you move over into a more workable range, where you should be in the course.This-- the number in the blue here tells me that half of the class, 50 of 98, have used these pre-imposed class quizzes in predicting their-- their scores.So that's good.So I hope that what you are doing is going to Grade Predictor and taking the time-- it's-- now we know what got-- what the scores were, I'll put the average in here.Something like that.And since those were actually earned, if this were you, it would show up as green, because you'd actually earned it.And then you-- if you just say, 'Okay, I'm gonna do better than that on the next exams, because now I know what the exams look like, and I know how to study better.I'm just gonna predict on all these exams.This is what I'll do.'And then, of course, once you take the exam, that'll get replaced with your score.Then you can take the time and move all these sliders over for the dozens of pre-class quizzes.You can figure out, 'Oh, I'm gonna do 80 percent of those.I'm gonna attend three-quarters of the classes,' so you can figure out to scroll over for all of those.Same thing.'Post-class quizzes are more points, so I'm gonna-- I'm gonna try harder to get those done.'And the-- you've done the Anatomoge table.You aced that.And now you can-- now you're in the place where you can do some work.So, here are all the other so-called 'optional assignments' you've completed.Maybe you've completed this one.About two-thirds of the class did the first Literature Review.So you can go ahead and figure out-- look at these assignments.Look at what they're worth.Look at what your load is with your other classes.Figure out which ones you want to do.So you can lay out a plan right now for how you're gonna get through this course, and I really, really encourage you to do that.Do you have questions about GradeCraft in general, right now?Okay.I hope to have learned my password by Wednesday.So there are a lot of assignments left to do.Here's what I wanna say, after grading most of Literature Review One, please, please, please read the assignment.When I ask you to write the research question in the form of a question, I actually mean that.And that's not arbitrary on my part.That's actually because I want you to think, 'What-- what were these investigators trying to answer?If you can look at the question, then you can-- or if you look at the article as answering a question, then that will guide you for the rest of it.I need anatomical detail in the answers.Common pitfall was to not pay attention when I say, 'Please format your article like this.'So please read the instructions.Maybe you could highlight things.Or after you've done the assignment, go back and read the instructions again, and see if you've actually followed the instructions.That would be good.Okay.Another-- one other point is, uh, a couple of you chose articles that were not related to Modules One through Four.Oops.Some of you used review articles.So what is a review article?Those instructions said, 'Do not use a review article.'A review article is where the investigators review the work done by others.They don't actually do an experiment.They just do a literature analysis.So even though there's lots of good stuff in review articles in order to learn anatomy, I want you to not do that here.Okay.Any questions about that?Okay.Alrighty.So here we go.Let's finish up bones so we can move on to muscles on Wednesday.I promised you that we were talking about-- alright, I misread the agenda, post-Super Bowl Sunday.We were supposed to do with muscles this morning, but nope, that is scheduled for next Monday.Okay.So, here's all of the things that we're going to do, learning about these bones.There's some angles here that are specified.So we've seen one angle in one bone, the femur.We're going to learn about some other angles today, and then we'll look about at some injuries.So here are the bones that we're going to learn about.We've seen the femur already, so it's everything south-- that would be distal-- of the femur: the tibia, fibula, all the bones in the foot.That is our job today.So here is the tibia.Your so-called 'shin bone.'So what do you know about the tibia?Can you feel any of these landmarks on yourself?And the answer is, 'Yes.'Number four and number six are easily palpated-- felt.And you can feel five as well.Okay, let's see how we are doing.I think we're there.And here come our answers.And moving on, what have we got?So here is a tibia.I said that you could feel this landmark.That's your tibial tuberosity.And you can feel it when you're sitting right there.It's that bump, if any of you-- I'm thinking back to my Catholic girls-- my Catholic school days, and kneeling for mass in the mornings.And if there weren't pads on the kneeling rails, you would feel your tibial tuberosity for sure.If your fingers walk even more distally, you can easily feel this edge of bone here.The anterior crest.It's on the anterior side of your tibia.And then, of course, your ankle bone, on the medial side, is the media malleolus that belongs to your tibia.So the condyles are the actual articular surfaces on the femur-- or excuse me, on the tibia for the femur.So the epicondyles are these knobs just distal to that.And then between the condyles is an eminence.Think of 'mental eminence,' 'mental protruberance,' between the condyles-- that bump, those bumps there.And their claim to fame is that they are where the anterior cruciate ligament and posterior cruciate ligaments attach.Okay, so that's the anterior surface of this tibia.And is it a right one or a left one?Medial, anterior, you've got everything there.This is a right one.Okay, so you all have mature tibia-- tibias, tibiae in this room.The newborn, no secondary ossification centers yet.The utterly cute 18-month-old.First grader.Uh, middle school.And then here is the high school graduation femur.All those growth plates, all those synchondroses are closed.Mature.Fibula.That is next door to the tibia.And in fact, it is on the lateral side of the tibia.So we're looking here at that same right tibia that we saw previously, but it's been flipped around, so now we're looking at the posterior aspect.How do I know that?Do you see the tibial tuberosity on this view of the tibia?No, because that's on the anterior surface.So this is posterior.And you can see the fibula nestled up next to the tibia, and it's got four landmarks.And let's go find them, and here you go.You can use what you learned about the fibula before class.You can learn what you know about anatomical terminology.You can learn what-- use what you know about the tibia already.But one way or another, you might be able to piece this together.Once you've done that, look at the proximal end of these two bones, and think about the femur.Do you think there's a joint between the femur and the fibula?Nope.The femur is gonna articulate just with the tibia.The fibula does not reach proximally enough to attach to the femur.Excuse me-- articulate with the femur.Okay, so here we go.And, let's name these.We've answered the first question.We'd established this was a posterior view, because we could not see the tibial tuberosity or the anterior crest of the tibia.So it looks like the apex of the fibula is what is attaching-- excuse me-- articulating with the tibia.Apex.This is the apex, the pointy-- the pointy end.So, the head of the fibula is wearing a birthday party hat with a cone on it.And that's the apex.Distally are two very, very important things.The lateral malleolus, your other ankle bone.Medial malleolus, lateral malleolus.You can feel both of those malleoli very, very, very, very easily in yourself.You can also palpate the head of the fibula quite easily.And where are you doing that palpation?Laterally.This is lateral.But.Note this: the only way that you can tell, definitively, that the fibula lying on the table in front of you is a right one or left one is because of that malleolar fossa.There's a little dent-- a fossa-- in the distal, posterior fibula.And once you find distal and posterior, you can figure out if it's a right one or a left one.So that-- the presence of that malleolar fossa is key to figuring-- to orienting the fibula.Right there.So these two bones are bound together, and they don't move with respect to each other unless you've had an injury and torn these structures.Unlike the radius and ulna, that actually had a synovial joint to allow rotation along the long axis of the forearm, these two bones don't have mobility with respect to each other.And why might that be?Why's the upper extremity designed so differently from the lower extremity?What do we wanna do with our upper extremities?We want to manipulate the world.We want to open door knobs, right?With the lower extremity, we want to locomote.Or dance, right?But we don't want mobility between those bones, because they're-- they have a different function.These-- this function-- er, excuse me.This structure is related to the locomotion function.So this is an interosseous-- 'between bones'-- membrane, connective tissue, and the distal tibiofibular joint is an example of a syndesmosis.It is a fibrous joint.This is the only one that we looked at, as an example of a syndesmosis early on in the course.Which bone is which, in this transverse section through the lower leg?Well, I see a big bone and I see a little bone.Which bone is bigger?The tibia is the hefty bone.So this must be the tibia.Now, can you tell me which is medial-lateral, in orienting these bones?Yes, because this is the medial bone.Fibula is the lateral bone.What about anterior?Is anterior up, or is anterior down, in this cross-section?What do you know about the tibia?It has an anterior crest.It has a pointy edge that you can feel, all the way down the anterior aspect of your tibia.So, this is anterior.We're gonna assemble the bones of the lower extremity here.And when we do that, an angle emerges called the 'Q angle.''Q,' short for 'quadriceps.'The quadriceps muscles are associated with the anterior femur.So, that's the derivation of the so-called 'Q angle.'And here's how it's measured.You draw a line through the tibia; you draw a line through the femur and the angle between those two lines is the 'Q angle.'I thought I'd put a question in here about the Q angle, and I don't know where it is.It's probably going to pop up...Yes.Oh, that's a really interesting question.So ideally, it-- it's measured when you're standing.And it's conceived of as a structural-- uh, as related to the alignment of these bones when you're standing.You wouldn't normally expect the Q angle to change very much, because in order for that to change, this-- uh, frontal plane angle between the tibia and the femur would have to change.And as far as we know, so far in this course, the knee is just a hinge joint, so there would be no lateral flexion, so to speak.Or ab- or adduction, rather, of the tibia with respect to the femur.Now, in real life, there is some of that.And in fact, that's been in-- that angle gets measured in studies of landing from jumps, in particular, in trying to understand the mechanism of ACL, anterior cruciate ligament injury.Because there is some ab- and adduction at the tibiofemoral joint.Yeah.Great question.So here's the question that I thought I had put in here, and I don't know where it went.How-- how big do you think the Q angle is?Eyeball it in your mind.Commit to a number.Is it 75 degrees?Is it five degrees?Is it 135 degrees?Is it 275 degrees?What's a reasonable number for a Q angle?If someone said you have a Q angle of 67 degrees, would you look like this?Nope.It's a small angle.I think the typical value is something like 12 or 14 degrees.Let's read about it here.Eight degrees.Eight degrees.So in other words, it's a small number.If you remember-- and, here's part two of this.I want you to be able to draw this.And in the 'Draw It to Know It' practice material for this module, I've asked you to draw this.If you can draw it, you know it; you don't have to remember anything.No memorization-- as little-- avoid memorization.Intellectual laziness is actually the pathway to understanding, deeply, anatomy.If you know the relationships, you don't have to memorize stuff.Okay.So, what structural aspect of the femur affects Q angles?We've got very different Q angles here.If you're mentally drawing lines through the tibia and through the femurs here, you're gonna get different values for the Q angle.You're gonna get a really big one here, bigger than that eight degrees.So what-- what's- what's determining what the Q angle is?Look proximally.Look at the inclination angle of the femur.Small, big.Coxa vara, coxa valga.So that inclination angle is setting the relationship of the location of the knee joints to the hip joints.And here're all the words that go with that.Yes.Oh, I'm loving these questions.No, because the inclination angle is-- at the cox-- at the femur-- is bony.There's no amount of muscle strength that's gonna change that.And that's what's determining the Q angle.However, what affects Q angle?The-- uh, rickets, a disease in childhood, when there's a Vitamin D deficiency, and so the bones aren't calcified enough.And with the loading there, that can change over developmental time the inclination angle, and therefore, change the Q angle.I don't know of literature that would suggest that in a child developing, whether-- lack of muscle strength might affect this.I'm thinking about children with CP or spina bifida, who-- who have an-- atypical developmental pattern and different muscle strength balances.Maybe over time, the effect of those forces might change the inclination angle.Wow, was that a long answer.But, so maybe, over developmental time.Meaning, 'growing up.'Okay.Great questions.Okay.So.Back to the details here.The inclination angle at the femur is going to set how the femur angle-- how the shaft of the femur angles with respect to the shaft of the tibia.And so, if that angle is less than normal, we're gonna end up with a bow-legged condition.And if it is... very small, it's going to produce a greater Q angle.And here are the drawings that go with that.Okay.I really suggest you take the time to make these drawings.I'm going to ask you about this on an exam.You can look at the slide, or-- it'll go in one ear and out the other.Draw it; it'll be with you forever.Here's normal.Let's look first at genu valgum.So, coxa vara is paired with genu valgum.So this angle-- uh, okay.Did I miss a word?Yes, I did.Here's something important.'Genu' means 'knee.''Genuflect.'Knee.'Coxa' meant 'hip.'So you see these words, 'valgum' and 'varum?'Remember those words from the hip?Coxa vara, coxa valga?I don't know why these are singular here.But anyway, if you have coxa vara, that reduced angle-- inclination angle-- you have a bigger knee angle.And that-- you can think of that knee angle as measured from here all the way around to here.So here's genu-- here's the genu angle.So, armed.And so coxa vara is paired with genu-- the other way-- valgum.So they're opposites.Genu valgum, coxa vara.Opposite.Alright.So.Now-- now we can look at what's going on.So coxa vara is a reduced inclination angle, so that's going to drive the distal medial-- the distal femur medially into this knock-kneed position.And when we measure that Q angle, it's going to be bigger than typical population.'Typical,' meaning this eight degrees.This green arrow is bigger than this green arrow.Bigger angle at the knee.Now, here's something very confusing.These words say a small or a negative Q angle is genu varum.How do you get a negative Q angle?Well, you measure it this-a way, instead of that-a way.So now the red line is on the opposite side of the blue line, in the negative direction.So the easy-- so, don't get all worked up about that.What I want you to think is, 'Is it a-- is it bigger than eight degrees?Is it smaller than eight degrees?'And, of course, a negative angle would be smaller.We've got another bone here, though.The patella, the sesamoid, the little cutie-pie bone that's your kneecap.And that bone apparently is going to articulate with the femur, because here are two facets on the posterior aspect articular faces, that apparently are gonna articulate with the femur.So the patella is relevant right now because we're talking about this Q angle that's related to the quadriceps muscle, and the patella lives inside the quadriceps tendon.So we have a smooth, smooth, smooth side, and a bumpier side.The smooth, smooth, smooth side is gonna be covered with hyaline cartilage that's gonna articulate with the femur.So which one of these is anterior?Not this one.Here's the anterior surface.And the patella, we can orient.Now we've got an anterior-posterior.Now, let's talk about proximal-distal and opposite to the fibula, the apex of the patella points down.Points distally.Fibula.Patella.Not all apexes point proximally.So the flattened base is proximal.The pointy apex is distal.Now, we haven't talked right and left.That's very-- that's beyond the scope of the class.It depends on the size of these, uh, femoral condyles.And we-- unless we have a patella in front of us, we can't see that.Okay, so we've talked about tibia, fibula, patella.And, now we have all those bones distal to the tibia and the fibula.And let's go in and name those.At the wrist, the little bones were called 'carpals.'In the foot, those little bones are called 'tarsals.''Twenty-six bones to learn.There are seven tarsals.How many carpals were there?There were eight.So we have one less tarsal to talk about here.We still have five metatarsals, like we had five metacarpals.And like the phalanges in the hand, we have only fourteen phalanges in the foot.The great toe-- the big toe, like the thumb, has only two phalanges, not three.And here's the job.So here are the tarsals to learn, and metatarsals, and the phalanges.We've got a proximal, middle, distal, just like the hands.We count these, just like the hands.The great toe is number one.The little toe is number five.And now we need to do the work of learning the names of these particular tarsals.So, we had, in the wrist, a proximal row of four tarsals, and a distal row-- carpals.And a distal row of four carpals.We've got a distal row of four tarsals, but only two tarsals more proximally here.One of them, the great big heel bone, or 'calcaneus,' which you can feel-- sometimes you get blisters on the skin over your calcaneus in a shoe with a rigid heel cup.There's a landmark on that calcaneus called the 'sustentaculum tali,' which actually sustains, suspends, holds up the talus.Thus the name.And we've got a navicular, some cuneiforms, and a cuboid.So let's dive in and learn these.Let's see if you know anything about these already.How are we doing?Still working.Alrighty.Here we go.And, I'm not gonna tell you what these bones are?Apparently not.It's because they're all labeled in the previous slide.But let's talk through this, shall we?Which of these is your heel bone, do you think?Number one, that calcaneus.It protrudes posteriorly the most.Easy.So the one next to it is the talus, number six.And the arrow there is pointing to a smooth, hyaline-covered surface of the talus that's gonna articulate with the tibia.So the talus is medial and articulates with the medial bone of the, uh, the tibia here.So those are the two in-- in that more proximal or posterior row, here.Um, here is the distal for-- but there's-- alright.Let me back up.Muttering.Let me be clear.The calcaneus articulates with the cuboid.The two 'C's go together: 'calcaneus' and 'cuboid.'So number two is that cuboid.The talus articulates with a bone called the nar-- navicular.So if you remember 'talus-navicular,'' 'calcaneus-cuboid,' then you're in good shape.Because the three remaining bones are the cuneiforms.And of course, we can tell the medial end of that from the lateral.So, if you remember that the cuboid articulates with the calcaneus, then you won't get confused about whether this bone is a cuneiform, and-- if this is the cuboid.Okay.So that's-- that's the trick to learning these bones.Alrighty.What do you know about these fellas?And this should be easy, because it's just like the hand.And you're so there.Here we go.Now I'm gonna back up.This is the ray five.The big one is one, so this must be five.And look, there's a little knob here on the base of this fifth metatarsal, and you can feel that on your own foot.Uh, so three is-- belongs to ray one, the great toe.And this is the distal phalanx.The first distal phalanx.Two would be the-- one, two, three-- would be the third proximal phalanx.And four is the second metatarsal.Is this a right or a left foot?Am I looking at the dorsal or plantar aspect?This is the dorsal aspect.So this would be a right foot.Okay.So, one more time.Here's what I'm gonna ask you.Is this the medial or the lateral aspect of this foot?Are you looking at the great toe?Are you looking at the little toe?When you think about your own foot, and you look at the medial aspect, is there an arch there that you can see?If you look at the lateral aspect, is there an arch there that you can see?Okay, here we go.Navicular, we think number three is.You were right.So this is the medial aspect.So this is the great toe, and you can see-- so number one-- do I have this labeled for you?Yeah, I do.But I'm not-- so, you don't need to worry about notes here, Ôcause it's labeled for you in the next slide.Let's just think about what we're looking at here.So this is the great toe, distal and proximal phalanx.Here's the first metatarsal, right here.And lookie what we've got there.We've got another sesamoid.Where is that sesamoid located?Under the head or the base of that first metatarsal him.Head.Heads are distal.Like the hands.Let's move over to this end.What bone is this?What protrudes most posteriorly?Your calcaneus.Five is a calcaneus.What is perched up on top of that calcaneus?That's the talus, right?Number four is the talus.And you can see that articular surface on its dome.And here is a protruberance of bone-- that's the sustentaculum tali that the talus sits on top of.And so now that we've found the talus, we know that the navicular articulates with the talus, and so two must be the medial cuneiform.And that's what most of you got.Lateral side of the foot, number five.What articulates with the calcaneus and with the bases of the metatarsals?Number five.Of course, that is the cuboid, which I'm sure you have-- yep.So calcaneus, cuboid.Number four.Head or base of the fifth metatarsal.Is the base.The boy-- base.You can feel that on your own foot.Please, when your shoes are off, feel for that landmark.What must three be, articulating with this cuboid?A cuneiform, right?That would be the lateral cuneiform.And then two-- articulating with the cuboid and with the talus-- is number two, the navicular.Wow.Okay.So we have made it through all of these tarsals.Here's a peek at the calcaneus.This is a posterior view of the calcaneus, and you can see the sustentaculum tali, that's gonna support that talus sitting here.And this is the medial surf-- medial view of the calcaneus, with the sustentaculum talus coming out of the board.So-- so is it on the medial or lateral aspect?Well, the talus is associated with the tibia.The tibia is the medial bone.So this is gonna be protruding medially to support that talus.Okay.This is a piece of cake.The foot's just like the hand.So the metatarsals, as we've been talking about.Number one starts counting with the great toe.You move laterally to get to number five, the little toe.The-- like the metacarpals, the metatarsals have a base proximally and the heads distally.So when you walk on tiptoes, you are walking on the heads of your metacarp-- par-- tarsals.Metatarsal heads, when you walk on tiptoe.Shaft is in between, and we've seen that sesamoid bone.Toes are just like the fingers: proximal, middle, distal phalanges, except for the great toe, which just has a proximal and a distal and no middle.Okay, so.If you do any reading about the foot, you might come across these names.So we-- so the rear foot is defined as the talus and the calcaneus.And we're gonna talk a lot about the rear foot, because this is involved in people talking into buying very expensive running shoes.Okay, we'll get to that little later.Forefoot is everything else.Sometimes the joint between the rear foot and the forefoot is called 'Chopart's joint.'And you can see, if you were dissecting a foot there, you would separate the talus from the navicular bone, and the calcaneus from the cuboid.Everything is a synovial joint in the foot.And then here are some of the details about how they can move.We don't have as much mobility in our feet as in our hands.The bones are gliding with respect to each other.And together, we'll see how-- how we'll talk about the movements of the foot more in a moment.But these-- these bones are basically gliding with respect to each other.Can you abduct your toes?You can abduct your fingers at the metacarpal-phalangeal joint.Can you abduct your toes at the metatarsal-phalangeal joint?A little bit.Okay, this is important.You all know about the word 'pronation.'And 'pronation' in the running shoe store means something different than 'pronation' in the clinic.And we're gonna learn what it means in the clinic.So, uh, inversion and eversion, which you've come to learn, occurs at the subtalar joint.That's the calcaneus moving underneath the talus.And we can observe that best from the rear, and we can see that calcaneus movement-- rear foot movement.However, because of all those joints that you just saw, there's a little bit of motion in the forefoot.So you can get those tarsal bones to move and scoot, and ad- and abduct your forefoot a little bit.So, when you put rear foot motions-- inversion, eversion-- together with forefoot motions-- abduction and adduction-- you call those movements, in the clinic, 'supination' and 'pronation.'So in the running shoe store, the term 'pronation' is used synonymously to mean the same thing as eversion.But in the clinic, the word 'pronation' means a combination of forefoot eversion-- excuse me-- rear foot eversion, coupled with forefoot abduction.So have any of you worked with children with cerebral palsy?If you have, you might have seen a certain kind of gait called 'equinovarus gait.'So sometimes because the kids might have spasticity when they walk, they're plantar-flexed, and inverted, and adducted.So their toe-- so they walk with a foot position, like-- like this.So there's forefoot adduction, inversion, and plantar flexion because of their spasticity.So that would be a supinated foot that clinicians might work to correct.So another place you might see this is in a ballet dancer.A ballerina on pointe sometimes bevels her foot.So everts and abducts to create a line.That's, uh-- that's the only place I can think where you would desire the-- a pronated foot.Okay.So we're clear?In clinical setting, we go with this.In the running shoe store, this would be cut off.When you go to buy shoes, the person in the store says, 'Walk away from me.'And they're looking at your rear foot motion.Okay.I saw this billboard, on Stadium.I stopped and I took a picture of it.And so I want to ask you: which side of your running shoe is more worn if you are an overpronator?The medial side of the heel of your running shoe, or the lateral side?Do I have a question?No.I don't know where all my questions have gone.How do you know if you're an overpronator?When you try on the $180 pair of shoes to correct this problem, what do you feel?Where is the wedge in your shoe?On the medial side of the heel, or on the lateral side of the heel?You know what?It's really cold out.It's really early.The Super Bowl was last night.I forgive you for not talking to me this morning.So I'm gonna treat these as rhetorical questions, and I'm just gonna answer them for you, okay?So an overpronator is gonna wear out the medial side of their heel.And so a shoe that corrects pronation puts a wedge on the medial side to force that calcaneus into the proper position.Okay.Ann Arbor Running Company loves overpronators because they can sell them shoes.Okay.And, so let's talk about mobility in the forefoot.We also-- because of those gliding joints, we've been talking about supination and pronation, and forefoot ab- and adduction.But you can also, um, amplify-- here's a ballerina on pointe.And there-- in order to get this-- what looks like extreme plantar flexion, there's gonna be some mobility in these intertarsal joints to-- to add to this look.Where do you think-- I won't go there.Okay.Arches in the feet.When you stand on sand, we can always-- oh, yeah.I'm not gonna say, 'Put in-- go barefoot in the snow.'Think of warm sand, going barefoot in warm sand.When you stand up-- when you walk down a beach, what do your footprints look like?You're missing part of your foot in the sand, right?It's just-- you can see the lateral side of your foot that presses down on the sand, and your toes and your heel.But the miss-- the middle-- the medial part your foot is missing from your sand footprint.That's because of this longitudinal arch.So you have an arch in your foot.And it-- it keeps you from pressing down on the sand on the medial side.So this arch is part bony.That is how these bones fit together.And it's part supported by ligaments and muscles.Why do your feet get tired when you stand for a long time?Because the little muscles inside your foot get fatigued, that are helping to support this-- this arch.Right?But you-- if you are a flat-footed person, there's nothing that you can do in terms of muscle strengthening to-- to change that fact.So some of it's bony.And then there is this dynamic-- these dynamic soft tissues that are also gonna help you.So the medial arch is more flexible.The lateral one-- the lateral arch-- the green arch is what leaves a footprint in the sand.The dotted blue arch on the medial side-- that's why it's dotted, because it's on the side you can't see in this slide.It's a higher arch.And then there's a transverse arch.So have any of you gone to buy boots and you can't get your foot in?That's because of your arch.If you have a high arch, you have-- you have a hard time forcing your foot into some-- some shoes.And that would be a high transverse arch.What I want you to take away from this?Know that there are arches in the foot.Relate them to your footprint in the sand.Ligaments help support-- yes?Good question.Um, not exactly like carpal tunnel, because it's not as closed of a structure, but one thing you get is plantar fasciitis.So how many in here have had that?It's-- it's tough.So they're-- uh, literally.So I'm showing you here, ligaments that-- that restrict motion at each of these synovial joints.But there's also a layer of fascia that runs from the calcaneus up to the metatarsals, and that can get inflamed, and that takes some therapy to get rid of that.So that's the more typical problem that can happen, is if you have, uh, connective tissue running along the base of this arch, and you stress that, either from walking a lot, or the other issues that can go into that, then that-- that tissue can get inflamed.So.Long plantar ligament, short plantar ligaments.What do I want you to know here?What does the word 'plantar' tell you?It tells you that these are on the plantar surface, and not the dorsal surface of the foot.So interestingly, the arches-- the ligaments that are suppoting-- supporting this arch are on the plantar surface.And why is that?Because if you weight-bear on this arch, it's gonna stretch this-- the ligaments on the plantar surface.So that's where you need the ligament to support, is underneath.And there're long ones, and there're short ones.Done.Which view of the foot is shown here?Uh, the plantar surface.What's the number of the day?Forty-two.Alrighty.Here we go.So there's another ligament.The so-called 'spring ligament.'That name is not very helpful, because it doesn't tell you anything.It tells you the sense; the poetic nature of this ligament.It helps keep a spring in your step.Okay, but enough poetry.Let's go to anatomy.Where is this ligament?The spring ligament-- oh, if only it had been called the 'plantar calcaneonavicular ligament,' we would know everything about it.We would know it's on the plantar surface, and it connects the calcaneus to the navicular bone.Okay.So, let's get oriented.Calcaneus.Medial side of the foot.Here's the sustentaculum tali coming out at you.Talus, tucked in, distal to that tibia.The medial malleolus up there.There's the talus, and we've got a ligament running from the sustentaculum tali over to the navicular.So what is that doing?That's giving a floor for what's called the 'head of the talus' to sit on.So it's supporting the talus; keeping the talus from falling down, towards the ground.So this is a really important ligament.Sustentaculum tali to the navicular.And, here is where you have to figure out that the talus is what's sitting, um, proximal to that ligament.And it's supporting it.It's-- it's like a trampoline supporting the-- this portion of the talus.Any idea what this might be?Achilles tendon, maybe?Alright, so we have done the bones.We have done the ligaments in the foot.Now let's crawl back up proximally, and start talking about that knee joint.Let's put those bones together.Uh, knee joint.Whole careers are spent on the knee joint.Largest and most complex joint in the body.Complex in terms of kinematics.That is, how this bones-- these bones move with respect to each other.And here's why.The tibial-- the tibia is almost flat, on its proximal surface.The femoral condyles are like the bottom of a rocking chair.Those femoral condyles are curved and very rounded.So, if you were-- if you just-- if, if the femur moved only like a rocking chair, on the tibia, your knee would look very funny when you flex it and extended it.So what happens is not only does the femur rock, but it slides on that flat tibial surface.So it's-- that's a very complex motion.It moves anterior-posterior.The contact point moves on that tibial plateau.So that's why the word 'complexity' is here-- very complex motion to describe.It's neither purely rotational nor purely translational.It's a combination.Thus the complexity.You've gotta weight-bear on your knees.Think of when you land on them from a jump; many, many times in a volleyball game.Think about running.And at the same time, huge range of motion.So a lot of demand on those knees.And which bones are involved?If you had to come up with an anatomical name for the knee joint, what would you call it?'Tibiofemoral joint,' perhaps?Because it looks like the fibula is not involved.I'm just gonna let you watch this little movie on your own, about the knee joint.And moving on.Tibiofemoral joint is a synovial joint.So what am I looking at here?I am looking at the distal surface of the distal end of the femur.And you can see this pink joint capsule, the synovial membrane making fluid.Nice smooth articular cartilage on the distal ends of those femoral condyles.Anterior-posterior; that's a little advanced for now.I'll tell you, this is anterior.And you'll learn how to tell that a little bit later.Well, you know the condyles and the intercondylar notch are posterior.Uh, here is the tibial plateau, so-called because these condyles are flattened.So those round femoral condyles are moving with respect to the-- this is the proximal surface of the tibia.Here is the fibula.And what is this?Tibial tub-- tibial tuberosity.Thank you.So we've got anterior and we've got lateral.Inside the synovial joint are the menisci, a fibrocartilage pad that sits inside the synovial joint.And it is not a-- the-- these fibrocartilage pads are reminiscent of the acetabular labrum.And the gleno-- uh, the glenoid labrum.But they're different because they're mobile.So, getting oriented.There's the tibial tuberosity.So anterior is up, and it's labeled 'medial' and 'lateral,' which is convenient, because we don't see the fibula to help us be able to determine which side is medi-- medial, and which is lateral.So these are wedge-shaped in cross-section; thin on the inner edge, thick on the outer edge.And they're gonna help to form a nice cup for those rounded femoral condyles to-- to stay, to not roll off the flat tibial plateau.And it's fibrocartilage, so we know that there's gonna be some shop-- shock absorption there as well.Now, here's a more anatomical view.Let's get oriented.Anterior is down here.Here's the patellar ligament; that's how I know it's anterior.So.How do I tell medial from lateral?The shape of these two menisci are different.The medial-- the medial one is shaped like a 'C.'The lateral one is closer to a full circle.The other thing that I note is one of these menisci seems to be associated with a ligament-- one of the collateral ligaments of the knee-- and that's the medial one.So, the-- they're both tied down at their ends.So you can see these fibrous attachments that are fixing the-- these-- the-- the anterior and posterior ends of the menisci on both sides.But the medial one also is tied down, or attached, to this ligament.So the lateral one can scoot out of the way of the crushing femoral condyle as it's moving in knee flexion and extension.But the medial one is fixed in three places, so it can't always get out of the way.And so the medial one is damaged more often because of this lack of mobility.It can get torn, where it's pinched between the lateral-- condyle-- or excuse me, the femoral condyle and these tied-down places, and so it can get torn.So, we've talked about the menisci, and you can see them here.Let's get oriented first.What am I looking at?Is this anterior or posterior?What structures am I looking at?Here's the tibia.I recognize the knobby ant-- tibial tuberosity, on the anterior surface.Here's the fibula, more posteriorly oriented and tucked underneath this lateral tibial condyle.The knee is flexed.So we're looking here at the articular surface of the femoral condyles.There're some ligaments inside the joint.These are the cruciate ligaments-- they're crossed.We'll talk about those in a moment.Here are the menisci.And then we have collateral ligaments on the sides.Collateral; a medial and lateral one.And which is which?Well, the one that's on the side of the fibula is lateral.So number one is the lateral collateral ligament.Number two is the medial collateral ligament.And so you can just go ahead and say that.Number two is the medial, on the tibial side of the joint, which is the medial side of the joint.And we've got that done.Very good.And moving on.Here we go.Zero wrong.Anterior-posterior view.It's a flexed knee.So this is the anterior view, and we talked about why that was.Anterior view of the knee joint.Okay.This was a question that got asked early on today.The knee allows these complex motions, so there's a little bit of what might be called 'ab- and adduction' that's allowed in a healthy knee.But when those movements get excessive, we're gonna tear up the medial and lateral ligaments, at the knee.And so, rather than calling it, nicely, 'ab- and adduction,' we call it 'varus and valgas loading.'So 'loading' is applying a force in the direction of valgus-- uh, valgus or varus.So, a valgus load is either going to push or pull the tibia-- the distal-- the distal tibia, the distal lower leg laterally.And we call that 'valgus.'That would be the same as exaggerating genu-- same direction as genu valgus.That medial angle gets bigger.So the clipping injury in football is hitting somebody just above the knee, on the lateral side.That's gonna apply a valgus load, and that's-- can tear this medial menis-- this medial collateral ligament.That's why it's not allowed.The lateral aspect of our knee is more available for insult from the mechanical environment out there, so it's more typical that we would get hit from that side.But of course, you can get hit from the medial side as well.So, these loading directions are consistent with what we have seen previously.In terms of the definition of genu valgum and genu varum.Okay.You got five more minutes in you?No.Shall I stop here?You want me to stop here?I'll stop here today.Okay.So we will start again-- take up again, starting with the cruciates next time.And, remind me not to ask that question again, when we have five minutes left.Okay.So good work this morning.It was painful to get here and to do all this work.Excellent job.And I will see you on Wednesday.We'll finish up the bones of the lower extremity and start muscle.I am not behind, because there's an extra lecture built in here.So all is well.Um, en--