Good morning, everyone.We are finishing up our discussion of head, neck and trunk muscles.And then we're gonna do some review, in preparation for the exam.So let's get started here.Uh, we got through all of the muscles last time.So assembling them into functional groups.So we added the muscles that you see dark here.So we added some extensors, of course, because we're talking about posterior muscles, currently.So they would all be extensors.Lateral flexors, the suboccipitals, the multifidus, the segmental group, and quadratus lumborum.We've added another contralateral rotator-- is the transversospinalis muscle group-- are all contralateral rotators.And the ips0lateral rotators are the suboccipital muscles.So, here's a question to get us warmed up.This looks like a slice through the lumbar spine.A transverse section through a vertebral lumbar vertebra here.How do I know this is a lumbar vertebra?Look at the orientation of these facet joints.Exactly.So what's that?It's lumbar, right?When they face medial-lateral.So let's get busy and find out what these muscles are.First, find anterior and posterior, to get oriented.Then think about what's superficial, what's deep, what might be near the vertebra itself.Monday morning, 8:43, and your brains are now officially doing work.Okay, does anybody want more time?Okay, still working.Are we good now?Okay.Moving forward.Okay, before going to the answers, I am going-- let's just talk through this.I see a muscle, number five, that attaches to the transverse process of this lumbar vertebra.If this were in the neck, what do you think this muscle would be?In the cervical spine, what muscles attached to the transverse processes here?Starts with an 's,' like many of our muscles.Somebody tell me.'Scalenes!'Yes.So this is like a scalene muscle, but it's in the lumbar spine.This is quadratus lumborum, okay?Oriented very similarly to the scalenes.If this were the cervical spine, we might call this a muscle in the prevertebral group.So, in the lumbar spine, what muscle is positioned like a prevertebral?Very, very deep.It starts with a 'p-s.'This is the psoas, right?Okay.Or filet mignon, for those of you who go to The Chophouse.Okay.Uh, alrighty.So big posterior muscle, a lot of cross-section, erector spinae here.Not separated into one of those muscles we just saw, named on the previous sign-- slide.Just the erector spinae group.Um, this looks like three relatively thin muscles in a layer.This would be the abdominal wall.The most superficial is the external oblique.Deep to the external oblique is number three, the internal oblique.And then deep to the internal oblique, the deepest of these abdominal wall muscles, is transversus abdominis, number two.So I've got everything labeled for you here.Are you okay with that?Got that?What's this thing?This is a kidney.These are bowels.Big vessels.Nice, um, nice fat to cushion all of these viscera.Okay.Or organs.Can you find external oblique here?And you've found it, I presume.Here we go.Mostly, let's talk about the people who clicked here.Is this the anterior or posterior aspect of the body?Posterior, right?He's got his skin pulled down.We can see that this is posterior, right?We haven't-- we actually haven't talked about these superficial muscles yet.And why is that?If you recall, I said the most superficial muscles on the posterior aspect of the body actually control the shoulder girdle in the glenohumeral joint.So we're going to dissect those away, and look deep to them.So we haven't even talked about these muscles yet.In fact, this is latissimus dorsi, and we'll talk about that after spring break.So external oblique fibers run as you expect: downwards and forwards, or inferiorly and anteriorly, in anatomical language parlance.This little triangle is drawn on here.And actually, that's a peek.We can see a little teeny bit of the internal oblique here.You can kind of see the fibers running in the opposite direction.Internal oblique, deep to external oblique.Okay.Here is the cross-section of the neck that you looked at last week.Here's a cervical vertebra, long spinous process, the transverse processes.And you can see the scalenus muscles attaching to the transverse process here, like we just saw and-- um-- um-- anal-- analogously to trans-- quadratus lumborum.So the question is: any muscle over here.What might it do?Anywhere in the box.What function is shared by any muscle in this box?In other words, when any muscle on the right side of the spine shortens, whether it's an anterior muscle or a posterior muscle, what might it do?And you have selected... they're-- good.They're right lateral flexors.These are right-- muscles on the right side of the body, and they're laterally flexing to the right, so they're associated with right lateral flexion.But if we wanted to generalize, we could say that lateral flexors are ipsilateral lateral flexors.So let me give you a hint for the exam.Are you listening?If you see the word 'ipsilateral' and 'contralateral,' read the word that follows it carefully.The word that follows it might be 'lateral flexion,' or the word might be 'rotation.'Be sure you read the word following that.If you see 'ipsilateral' or 'contralateral,' just don't assume we're talking about rotation, right?Be sure to read the words.Slow down and read the words on the exam.Okay, so you did very well on that.What about these muscles?What do they-- where do we find them?This is a box.It's isolating muscles posterior.What do we know about the function of muscles on the posterior aspect the spine?We would expect these muscles to do what?And you have, for sure, selected 'extension.'Good work.If you know where the muscle is, you know what it does.If you know what it does, you know where it is.Structure-function relationship.Alright.Here begins the brain twisting-- teasing.The hard question of the day.When you do a sit-up, with a twist to the right-- right elbow to left knee-- who's doing what, and how are they doing it?First of all, name the movement.Once the movement is named, then you can work through this list.Do you agree with the person sitting next to you?Okay, so let's see what you've got.Huh.It looks like we have one answer that most people like, but there's quite a bit of suggestion that the other answers might be correct.So let's-- let's talk through this.The movement-- when you bring your right elbow to your left knee in a sit-up-- you're flexing, but which direction are you rotating?Towards the left.We agree?So we have left rotation.So which muscles shorten in left rotation?Are there any muscles-- are-- is there such a thing as an ipsilateral rotator?Yeah.Is there such a thing as a contralateral rotator?Yeah.So we're gonna be looking for anything-- 'concentric' up there tells us muscles are shortening while they're generating this motion.So the concentric choices-- there's only one.So that's why 'b' is correct.If you're rotating to the left, then the contralateral rotators will be acting concentrically.Oh, I'm sorry.This is a twist to the right.So a twist to the right-- oh, I'm sorry.Described the movement wrong.A twist to the right would be the left elbow to the right knee.That's the twist to the right.Is that what I said on the previous slide?No.It's just this one.So a twist to the right-- so unfortunately, I mixed up my elbows and knees.But this is about twisting to the right, so it's left elbow to right knee.Twist to the right.So when you're twisting to the right, it's gonna be the contralateral rotators on the left side, right?Correct?Because the muscles-- the contralateral rotators on the left side are gonna rotate the body-- they're gonna shorten when the body rotates to the right.So we don't even need to look at the eccentric ones, because the eccentric ones are going to be lengthening, and they're not involved in this task.Are there any other muscles?What about the right ipsilateral rotators?Could they be involved in this task?If you're rotating to the right, we know the left contralateral rotators are gonna shorten.What about the right ipsilateral rotators?Do they shorten during this task?Yeah!But is-- they would be acting concentrically.So that's what's wrong with 'c.''C' says they're acting-- they're lengthening during the task, but they're not.They're shortening.Okay.So when you twist to the right, two groups of muscles can-- will shorten during that task.The ipsilateral rotators, on the right.Those shorten when you rotate in the same direction.Ipsilateral, same direction.Right twist, right ipsilateral rotators.And the contralateral rotators on the other side-- if you're twisting to the left, it would be the left contralateral rotators that shorten during this task.Are we together on this?Confusion?We're good?Okay.Correct.And even though we might wanted to invoke the right ipsilanter-- ipsilateral rotators, we didn't because of this word 'eccentric,' that says they're lengthening while they're active.But we know that in a right rotation, the right ipsilateral rotators would be shortening.They would be acting concentrically, so we re-- we rejected 'c.'Okay.Remember these?One of them is labeled wrong.Which one is labeled wrong-- or rather, labeled correctly?Any clue yet, where these muscles of mastication attach?Alright.Here we go.Good work.You're absolutely correct.So, lateral pterygoid-- it could be the medial pterygoid; that's our confusion, but perhaps you remember that the medial pterygoid attaches on this angle of the radi-- uh, mandible-like masseter.So, lateral pterygoid: correct.Why is this not the masseter?Where does masseter attach?Well, we just said it attached here, and this muscle-- maybe this free end could actually have been cut off of the angle of the mandible, kind of a question mark.But let's look at the other attachment of this muscle.Where does masseter originate?Where does have its origin?Zygomatic arch, which is cut away in this picture.Masseter-- you don't, uh-- masseter you can feel, like there.Attaches-- zygomatic arch.So the muscle here is actually kind of the Valentine's Day muscle.It does that, okay?Or actually, it... does that.It compresses your cheeks.Okay.We didn't talk about that muscle at all.Alright, so good job.You're on top of the pterygoids.I'm impressed, and it's only Monday.Alright.So which of the following muscles are ipsilateral rotators?Just to check here, have you started to assemble muscles by functional group of the spine yet?Ooh, we are still working.That's good.Oh dear.A lot of sneezing out there.Okay, let's see what you have decided.Some confusion.This to me looks like perhaps we haven't sorted this out yet.So let's talk about this as a deductive process.Quadratus lumborum and psoas major.If you remember where quadratus lumborum is, it's right at those transverse processes, so it's not gonna have a rotation function at all.It doesn't have much moment arm there.And neither does psoas major.They-re-- they're just so close to the joint axis.There's not much rotation there.So I would put that in the low priority.Transversospinalis and suboccipitals.Well, we talked last time about what the rotation function was of the transversospinalis, and that has to do with the name of the group itself.Transversospinalis connects transverse processes to spinous processes, so what it does is shorten the distance between spinous processes and transverse processes.So just by the name of the muscle, when the distance shortens between a spinous process and a transverse process, think of moving that-- rotating that spinous process towards the transverse process.So if you're shortening that distance on the left, the spine's gonna rotate towards the right.So the transversospinalis muscles are contralateral rotators.Sternocleidomastoid and external oblique.Sternocleidomastoid, if you don't remember, you just do it.Here's my right one.I'm going to bring my origin and insertion closer together.I am now looking at my left.So therefore, my right sternocleidomastoid has rotated my head to the left.That's the definition of contralateral rotation.Even if you don't remember the function of sternocleidomastoid, you can do the function of sternocleidomastoid, and eliminate it here.So that leaves internal oblique.Now, a short-- and who knows what splenius does.But we know for sure that internal oblique is an ipsilateral rotator because you memorized that.Internal oblique, ipsilateral.Internal oblique, ipsilateral.Both 'i's.So you could start because you remember the relationship between internal oblique and ipsilateral rotation, and guess there, not knowing what suboccipitals do-- or, excuse me.Splenius.That would be a good guess.Even without knowing what splenius does.So, there's memorization, and there's also thinking.What I want you to do is to figure out the function of the transversospinalis.When you shorten the distance between a spinous process and a transverse process on one side of the body, which way does it rotate?Then you-- then you don't even need to memorize it, 'cause you can just remember that movement.You can just do that movement, and sort it out.So what I'm asking you to do is to augment your memorization with an understanding of where the muscles are and where they attach.Like I said earlier, if you know where they attach, you can figure out their function.If you know their function, you can kind of figure out where they are.It works both ways.Okay, here's a picture.And the question here is: name one of the muscles in red.I'd be good if you name one of them, but the challenge, of course, is to be able to name all of them.You will not get a question like this on the exam.We're just practicing here.Okay, we're still working?Okay.Anybody want more time?Uh, sternocleidomastoid.Okay.So masto-- mastoclavicular.Love it.Okay.Esophagus.There are muscles in the esophagus, but they're beyond the scope of this course.Okay.So I'm seeing some correct answers.I'm seeing, of course, the majority of people going for the easy one.The muscle that attaches to the sternum, to the clavicle, and to the mastoid process is, of course, sternocleidomastoid.Let's go to the next one that is-- would be, in my mind, the next easiest one.What muscle in the cervical spine attaches to transverse processes in a rib?What group does it belong to?Scalenes, right?Anterior, medius, posterior?Don't-- don't know, because I didn't ask you to memorize which one of the scalenus muscles attached on the first rib or the second rib.So, one of the scalenus muscles.Okay.And, now what is this one?What muscle group does this belong to?Where do I find it?Is it not very deep?Is it even deeper than the esophagus?Yes.So what muscle group does this belong to?Anterior cervical spine muscle.Somebody?Group?Group?You can say it!You can do it!Group?Spit it out.Somebody, help me here.Yes, thank you very much.One of the prevertebral muscles.Does it attach to the skull?No!So it's the one in the prevertebral group that does not have the word 'capitis' in it.So it would be longus coli.Can we come up with the names of-- see?We logic-ed our way to that one.If you know the prevertebral group, because of where it lies-- it's very deep, just anterior to these cervical vertebra bodies-- you know it's gotta be one of the prevertebral and then you kick into gear.Oh yeah, I remember what those prevertebrals were.Longus capitis, longus coli, rectus capitis anterior, rectus capitis lateralis.Those muscles.And the only one in that group that didn't attach to the skull was longus coli.We've done that.Okay.Ooh.Eccentric action of which of these muscles causes depression of the temporomandibular joint?Depression is which movement?What does eccentric action tell you?Will the muscle be getting longer or shorter with eccentric action?Okay.The majority of you are wrong, and let me tell you why.You were correct that those above three muscles, which are all elevators of the temporomandibular joint, lengthen when the temporomandibular joint depresses.That's true.They get longer.But, the word 'cause' up there.If they were to cause depression, would they not be pushing downward on the mandible, rather than pulling upward?Muscles don't push, they only pull.So it's true that they're lengthening, but they are not acting eccentrically.Ooh, is that confusing?Okay, so how would this be true?This would be true if I was a very frightened person in the dentist chair, and I had a sadistic dentist who said, 'Open your mouth.'And I said, 'No, no, no.'So if the dentist grabbed my mandible and pulled downward while I had engaged my elevators, I would be resisting the dentist trying to open my mouth.Whoa, this is a bad scenario.Um, trying to open my mouth-- or maybe, think of this as trying to give your dog a pill.That's a little bit happier.The dog does not want to open-- it's learned what's gonna happen when they taste hamburger, and they-- even though they want the hamburger, they don't want the pill.So they try to keep their jaw closed.You try to force the dog's mouth open.So the dog is activating masseter, temporalis, and medial pterygoid to close the jaw, to elevate it, and-- but you're stronger.This is a Chihuahua, and you can force the-- in other words, there's an external force that is actually opening the mouth, depressing the jaw, and the muscles are resisting it.In that case, the muscles would be acting eccentrically, because they would be trying to close the jaw, and lengthening at the same time.Okay.We like the 'Chihuahuas and the pill' scenario better, don't we, than-- better than the sadistic dentist?Okay.We're gonna talk more about this later, but just a heads-up, that concentric and eccentric do refer to a length change.That's always true.But really, how the joint moves depends on all of the forces acting on the joint.In the cases so far, only muscles have been active.But as we move on in the course, we're gonna let other forces active, like the Chihuahua’s owner trying to open the jaw.Imposing external forces that are even stronger than muscle forces, that actually dominate the movement.Okay.So the key thing here was cause.Meaning no other forces are acting on that joint except the muscle forces.Na-- a-- and-- the nervous-- yeah.Name a muscle that belongs to the suboccipital group.Can you do this?Any clue what a suboccipital muscle might be?First, think: where are the suboccipital muscles?Are they anterior-posterior?Are they deep-superficial?Where are they?And once you think about where they are, it might trigger some knowledge that you have about the name of a muscle that might belong to that group.What is one word that you might expect to find in the name of a muscle in the suboccipital group?Two words.I can think of two words, based on where I'm putting my hand.Okay, let's see what you have decided.A neck muscle.Uh-huh.That's true.Would it be an anterior or posterior neck muscle?I think I heard 'posterior' out there.And, because of where I put my hand here, what other word besides 'posterior' might I expect to see in the name of a suboccipital muscle?My hand is very close to my skull, is it not?So perhaps that word 'capitis' might show up.'Rectus capitis major.'Good, except we need a 'posterior' in there.Uh, 'major and minor.'Again, excellent, we need a 'posterior.'There we go.'Biceps.'Nope.That's the name of a muscle, but it's not in the suboccipital group.Okay.So, try to let the anatomical language which you are working so hard to master help you.'Suboccipital' tells you so much.If you saw a listing of muscle names-- if you didn't have to come up with it on your own-- if you just saw a listing of muscle names, just by 'suboccipital,' you would be able to get 95 percent of the way towards an answer.Number of the day.Could we do the obvious-- obvious?February 19th-- how about 19?And there we go.Look at those-- ooh.Okay.Okay, we're gonna try again on this spine rotation.Clearly, I want you to have this sorted out before Wednesday.This is question number two.Which of the following statements is true about muscles that act to rotate the spine to the right?Rotating the spine to the ro-- right.Rotating the spine to the right.We like this kind of a rotation question better than the first one.I should've warmed you up with this one.Alright.And you have chosen the correct answer here.And, what is the-- the muscles on the right; what would we refer to those as?Right; ipsilateral rotators, found on the right side of the body.And muscles on the left; those would be the contralateral rotators found on the left side of the body.Oof.This makes much more sense than that horrible question I asked early on.Okay?Good.We're happier now.Much, much happier now.This is the concept.The higher-level understanding of this rotation business.I can feel the relief out there.Now it's making sense.So I claimed that if you looked at the anatomical language, you might be able to sort this out.Transversospinalis group.Eek.I know this is hard.I went looking to make this a devilish question, so that we could talk about it, and help sort it out.So you're not trying to sort it out on Wednesday for the first time.We're sorting it out on Monday for the first time.Why do all that tough an-- anatomy words start with an 's'?We had to deal with all those synchondroses, symphyses, syndesmoses, and now we have all of these 's' words.It's the curse of the letter 's.'Okay, it looks like you've made your decisions.Just for the heck of it, let's see how we have-- ooh, ooh.We're not quite there.Alright.So.Spinalis, semispinalis.Which one of those belong to the erector spinae group?Remember erector spinae had a iliocostalis?It had a longissimus, and it had a spinalis.So we reject answer 'a,' because we know spinalis is an erector spinae muscle.Okay?Next.Splenius.Oh, maybe you have a vague memory of talking about splenius early on.It wasn't part of anybody's group.It was its own group.In fact, the splenius muscles--capitis and cervicis-- were in the same group as the erector spinae.They were in the intermediate group.Those splenius muscles and erector spinae.We talked about those, and then we went deep, to the deepest layer, to talk about all the rest of the muscles.Maybe you remember that.So we reject splenius, because we talked about that as its own muscles.So that leaves us with one.We remember absolutely nothing about semispinalis capitis, but at least it does-- not the other two.So that would be one way to approach this question.Deduction, based on what you might know.Another way to approach it is to have memorized-- and I do recommend this-- what are the three muscles-- look at that.She holds up four fingers and says, 'Three.'The three muscles that belong to the transversospinalis group, and can we name those?We had the semispinalis muscles, capitis cervicis.But the semispinalis muscles-- name me another one, please.Multifidus?Buy that?Multifidus?And the rotatores, right?So you could approach this by memorizing, straight up, the muscles that belong to the transversospinalis group.Or, maybe you have a spotty memorization because you did it on Tuesday night, which I don't recommend.You should start now, start now, start now, start last week, but at least start now.Remembering what belongs to the erector spinae group.And some clue as to when we talked about the splenius muscle.What do we know about the function of the transversospinalis muscles, in terms of rotation?Left ones, I'm going to pull my spinous processes towards my-- um, what are these?Transverse processes on the left side.When I do that, the distance that-- shortens when I pull my spinous process towards the left side of my tran-- by left transverse processes, and I rotate towards the right.So these are contralateral rotators.Uhp, we just did this.So you can write this down for your notes, to remind you to remember this.Semispinalis, multifidus, rotatores.So what are we taking away from this review?Learn the muscles that belonged to the groups.Have an idea where the groups are.Ooh, superficial to deep.Ooh, this is hard.The most superficial muscles, we're not talking about.That was in the picture at the beginning.So then that-- then we have the intermediate layer, which consisted of two muscle groups.And then we had a deep layer.So who's in the intermediate layer?We just talked about that.Which muscle groups belong to the intermediate layer?And then go deep.Ooh!So if you were dissecting from superficial to deep, in the cervical region-- this is a really, really hard questions, and it's really just to talk about where these groups lay with respect to each other.Okay.So, 'd,' 'a,' 'c,' 'b.'I guess I have to turn that off.Splenius and longissimus.So I just said that the intermediate layer had the splenius in it-- the splenius muscles, and the erector spinae group.Maybe you recognize 'a' as a member of the erector spinae group.So it's hard to know-- those are both in the intermediate layer, so it might be hard to know which is which.So this is a little bit advanced, to recognize that splenius is actually more superficial, even than erector spinae, in the cervical region.Okay.That's advanced.These two are in the intermediate layer.So now we're gonna go deep.And we have semispinalis, which we identified just a moment ago, as one of the transversospinalis muscles.And that one is next-- these are both transversospinalis muscles, so again, it's hard to know which is deeper, but the rotators actually are.So I would be happy, actually, if you were able to, uh, figure out which two were the intermediate layer-- erector spinae, and splenius.And then which two belong to the deeper layer-- the transversospinalis group.Okay?Beyond that, it's kind of advanced detail.Ooh, she's doing it again.Alrighty.Here we go.And you have unanimously chosen the correct answer, almost.And let's talk about why this is correct.Because, lateral flexors come in only one flavor.Ipsilateral.Period.Done.There is no such thing as a contralateral lateral flexor.Does not exist.Lateral flexion is only controlled by the-- by ipsilateral lateral flexors.This question was to remind you of that.So even if you don't remember what quadratus lumborum does, if you had to answer this, you would say, 'But lateral flexion can only be controlled ipsilaterally.'So I'm gonna go with 'b.'Superficial to deep on the anterior side.This one is much, much, much, much, much, much, much, much easier.Okay.We're slowing down.And here we go.I'm gonna back up so we can talk about it.Ooh, we have some doubt.Let's talk about this.I thought this would be so much easier.So.What is right under your skin, on the abdominal wall?Rectus abdominis.And, in the medial part of the abdominal wall.But as you move laterally, it would be external oblique.Right?Those are the most superficial.So, notice I don't have 'external oblique' up there because I-- it's at the same level as rectus abdominis, in terms of superficial-to-deep.What's deep to external oblique?Internal oblique.What's deep to internal oblique?Transversus abdominis.And where is psoas major?Deep, deep, deep, deep, deep.It's right there by the lumbar vert-- vertebral bodies, right?It's the prevertebral of the lumbar region.So it's deep, deep, deep, deep, deep.Much easier than doing the same job on the posterior musculature.Name a muscle.Pick it out of the air.What's the name of a segmental muscle?You have a choice of two muscles.Segmental.What is there in that word that might be helpful?Motion segment.You know what a 'motion segment' is.These are muscles that span one motion segment.They run from one vertebra to the next vertebra.The next adjacent vertebra.And they're found running between adjacent transverse processes and adjacent spinous processes, so these names would be: interspinali-- eeeh.Interspinalis, and intertransversarius.Look at that.Nailed it.'Segmental' spans a motion segment.Vertebra to the next-door-neighbor vertebra.The adjacent vertebra.These are the little cutie pies that run from transverse process to transverse process, or spinous process to spinous process.Intersegment.Intertransverse process.Interspinous processes.Segmental.You practically don't even need to think about this, except to understand what the word 'segmental' means, and then you've got it.Pull out of your hat the name of one muscle that might belong to the prevertebral group.First, think, 'Where is the prevertebral group?'And that might trigger some of your thinking.Prevertebral, right in front of just anterior to the vertebral bodies.So, we're looking for one word for sure: 'anterior.'Are there some other words that you can think of?Longus coli.Yep, gave that away.Capitis.Getting warmer.Uh, something capitis anterior, how about.How about rectus capitalists anterior?How about rectus capitis lateralis?How about longus capitis?Okay?Alright.So, those are the questions that I have for you.Do you notice what I've done here?We spent a day learning the muscles, and then we spent a day talking about the muscles.And that's how we're gonna proceed going forward.You might see that there's something called 'hip muscles,' and then 'hip muscles redux.'So we'll have a 'here-they-all-are,' and then 'let's-work-with-them' day for all of the muscles as we move forward.Um, I have put in the 'Draw It to Know It' section in the module, pictures like this.And I have suggested that you draw muscle names.So, I-- there are a number of pages, and one of them might say 'psoas major,' over here.And maybe this one says 'rectus cap-- uh, capitis posterior major.'Something like that.So, try drawing them.And of course, this way, you don't have to draw the bones, but it's another way for you to-- without any cues, because the slides are full of cues, and the exam won't be full of cues-- it lets you know if you know these muscles or not.And it spares you drawing the bones.So you can print those out and draw on them.And, so this is where we're gonna end for the exam on Wednesday.How are you feeling about these trunk muscles?Are you getting a better idea of what it is that you need to-- to do, between now and Wednesday?Of course, for the bone part of the exam, you've already been there, done that.You know just what those questions are gonna look like.So, then there's the muscle section.You kind of need to know that muscle tissue business.So I am here as promised, to answer questions that you might have for the exam.So anybody who has to leave or wants to leave, do so.And then anyone who wants to stay, I will stay and answer questions for you.Good luck on Wednesday, and see you then.