Good morning, everyone.I was shocked when I woke up yesterday morning, and the radio said it was a different time than my clock.I had completely forgotten that it was daylight savings time, but now I am in sync with the rest of the world.Although my body is lagging a bit.It's a little hard to get out of bed this morning.I trust you're experiencing the same thing.Anyway.Here we go.Another giant bolus of muscles is about to descend on you.We're gonna move distally in the upper extremity, and look the muscles that control the elbow, wrist, and fingers.So, uh not only that, but the muscles that control supination and pronation, we will discuss.The one muscle group that we have to consider is something called the 'anatomical snuff box' from the nineteenth century gentlemanly placing of snuff in the anatomical snuff box.But other than that, we have lots of muscles, on their own, to consider.So let's jump in and start learning them.So the upper extremity is highly mobile.So we're gonna need lots of groups of muscles to control flexion and extension.We have flexion and extension at the wrist, and ulnar and radial deviation.Flexion of the fingers.We are not going to talk about the muscles that control ab- and adduction of the fingers, because those have origin and insertion just in the hand itself; the so-called 'intrinsic hand muscles.'So I will leave those to more advanced anatomy courses.But for the thumb, we will talk about the muscles that ab- and adduc-- or abduct, at least, the thumb.We also need to find the supinators and pronators.And let's jump in and start doing that.Anterior and posterior muscles in the upper arm flex and extend the elbow.So we'll find the muscle bella-- bellies for the flexors and extensors of the elbow where we would expect them.You already know these muscles: biceps brachii and triceps brachii.So we won't have too many others to discuss.They're listed for you here.You can see a theme.Muscles that, uh, are found in that upper arm have that word in them.'Brachial,' for the brachial porsch-- uh, the brachium is the upper arm, in Latin.So we have biceps brachii, brachialis, brachioradialis, and then triceps brachii.And one orphan muscle that doesn't have 'brachia'--  'brachio' in the title, and we'll find anconeus.Biceps brachii; we've already talked about the details of origin and insertion, but we have not yet talked about the consequences of that insertion on the radius with regards to motions of the more distal upper extremity.And so we're now going to add 'elbow flexion' to the list of functions for biceps brachii.And, because it's attached to the radius, it is a supinator.It pulls that radio tuberosity anteriorly, resulting in supination of the forearm.When you do a chin-up, you typically prefer to do that in a supinated position, rather than a pronated position.That is so you can take advantage of biceps brachii muscle force length curve, to help you flex your elbow.So let's check out his biceps.We've seen it before, in terms of flexion of the shoulder.Now we're seeing his biceps bulge with elbow flexion.Notice I'm saying 'biceps,' even when I'm looking at a one of his arms, because there is no such thing as a 'bicep.'It always has an 's.'Now we'll look at his biceps supinating his forearm.Whoa, yeah.Look at that biceps bulge when he supinates.So now I'm gonna ask you a question about brachialis.Can you find that muscle?You might have to do this by deduction.Some of the other muscles that are shown in this figure, we've already learned about.So can you find those muscles, and then sort out, by deduction, which one here must be brachialis?Look at where they attach.Even if you don't know the names of these muscles yet, based on their attachments, might they have a function at the shoulder?If so, we've already discussed them.Did I open that?Yes, I did.Good job, me.Oh, we are a quiet group this morning.We're not talking to anybody to help us sort this out.Okay, here we go.And oh, look at you awake ones.You've chosen 'one' as brachialis.Even if you knew nothing, the only muscle that does not cross the glenohumeral joint, and have a function there, is muscle number one.That's brachialis.So we're looking at a muscle that originates on the anterior distal humerus, and inserts on-- hmm, this looks like it's not the radius, 'cause there's the head of the radius, and the radial tuberosity.So this brachialis muscle must insert on the ulna.Muscle three: origin on anterior scapula, insertion on anterior humerus, very proximally.That's what?Subscapularis.Muscle two: coracoid process to brachial bone, here at the humerus.Coracobrachialis, number two.Alrighty.Good.You agree with me.And there's everything labeled for you.Okay.So, formally, here's brachialis.Anterodistal humerus, we talked about for its origin, and inserting on the ulna.It has no supination-pronation function because it does not attach to the radius.You must attach to the radius if you're gonna supinate or pronate.So it inserts near biceps brachii, but on the ulna.So it doesn't share that function at the proximal radioulnar joint, with biceps brachii.And, let's look at these muscles functioning.So what have we got here?Elbow flexor is shortening with elbow flexion.So there's biceps, and deep to it, brachialis.Turning green when the elbow shortens.In fact, if you place your fingers on either side of your biceps tendon and press, you will be touching your brach-- or palpating, your brachialis muscle, deep to biceps brachii.One more: brachioradialis.We know its attachments from its name.'Brachial': 'humerus.''-Radialis': 'radius.'It attaches distally on the styloid process of the radius.My grandfather had a great big one of these, because he was a carpenter.He built houses without power tools.So, his use of a hammer made a very, very big brachioradialis.He also, uh, was missing the distal phalanx of his thumb on his left hand from a sawing accident.Okay.So.Brachioradialis also flexes the elbow, because it passes anterior to it.And there's brachioradialis.Lateral styl-- lateral epicondyle of the humerus to the styloid process of the radius.Brachioradialis.That's it, for the elbow flexors.Biceps brachii, assisted by brachialis, and then, the brachioradialis comes into play as well.If we look distally, the story is even simpler.Triceps brachii is where most of our extensor torque comes from at the elbow.But there's little tiny anconeus that also can help, and there's Leonardo's picture of the flexors.This is interesting.Which-- what muscle is this?That is brachialis.A little bit stylized, I would say.And then here's biceps brachii.You can almost peek at the two heads there.Here's brachioradialis.And then we have a posterior view here.And what is shown really nicely are two heads of the triceps.Here's the long head, and the one that that looks most visible from this view is one of the two new heads we're gonna talk about.This is the lateral head of triceps.And this little diagonal-going muscle is anconeus.You can see brachioradialis here.That's the view that was very prominent in my grandfather.Okay, so where is long head of triceps brachii?This is the head of triceps that we already know, because this is the head that functions at the glenohumeral joint, as an extensor.Any recollection of the long head, from last time?And here we go.Ooh!Okay.So last time, we talked about how the long head braids between teres major and teres minor.If you don't remember that relationship, you can look here.This head of triceps seems to be attaching to the humerus itself.So it's not going to a function at the glenohumeral joint at all, because it doesn't attach to the scapula.So that can't be the long head.Alrighty.So that head that some people clicked on in the last image is this 'question-mark' muscle.And that's what we're gonna talk about now.Here's the long head braiding between the two teres major, and here's a picture of anconeus that we'll talk about in a moment.So if you were to name this muscle, what would you call it?What would you give the name of this head of triceps?Let's see if anyone has any creativity out there this morning, or if it's just too Monday earlyish to come up with something.And you have 'lateral head.'Ooh, definitely not the biceps, because that is an-- anterior.Never, never, never do we use the word 'tricep' without an 's' on the end.Lateral head.Okay, um, I'm seeing-- never without the 's.'Okay, lateral head.Here we go.Triceps brachii.In fact, many of you just identified the lateral head.And we're gonna see that when you extend against resistance, it's your lateral head that pops out there; superficially, proximal, posterolateral.The medial head attaches a little bit more deeply, and it's deep to the long head, which is why we don't see it in that more superficial dissection.And of course, we already know triceps: all heads, all heads, all heads show the same insertion on the olecranon process.So the only thing different here it-- are their origins.And triceps, all of them, extend the elbow because of this insertion on the ulna, posteriorly.So this is the view that we have been looking at-- the superficial view, where we have triceps long head braiding between those teres muscles to attach on the scapula.Infraglenoid tubercle there.And we have to cut away the lateral head to look deep, to see the medial head; attaching more medially on the posterior humerus.And there's a bare strip of humerus between those two origins of lateral and medial head, and a nerve passes right through there.Uh, and there can be some issues with compression of that nerve against the bone as it-- of the radial nerve, as it passes through that space.Okay, so morning meat view.Let's get oriented, so that we can make sense of what we're looking at.This is a left upper arm, posterior.Lateral, here.Medial, here.So, here's the deltoid, attaching on-- laterally, on the deltoid tuberosity.And distal to that is triceps brachii lateral head.And here's the medial head.We've pulled away the long head to take a peek at the medial head here.And this structure is that radial nerve that I was just talking about, passing between lateral and medial heads of triceps brachii.And, let's look at his triceps.There's the lateral head bulging, right there.Look for that in the mirror, when you get home.Roll up that short sleeve, extend your elbow against resistance, and appreciate your lateral triceps.Okay, last extensor.Anconeus: a little one.Taking origin from the humerus.Lateral epicondyle.So we've seen that the brachioradialis takes origin more proximally, just above that supra-- on the supracondylar ridge, just superior.So anconeus is grabbing onto the lateral epicondyle, but this time running posteriorly to attach, also, on the proximal ulna, posteriorly.And it adds in to extensor torque at the elbow.Now, here's something that's going to look confusing to you.When you're in the lab and you're looking at bare bones with the origins and insertions painted on them, you're gonna see a little tiny speck of paint on that olecranon process.And a big patch of paint for the insertion of the anconeus.Because of the relative size of these insertions, you're gonna think the big one must be the big muscle, triceps, but no.Triceps has a very discreet insertion, small insertion, on that olecranon process.And anconeus has a much broader one.And you can see that it's kind of a triangular-shaped muscle, with this broad insertion.And his anconeus, we're gonna see bulging there.Lateral side of his forearm.So let's look at these elbow extensors.Now we can identify all of them, because we know about anconeus.So they're all going to turn green with elbow extension.The two heads of triceps that we can see, and anconeus.They're all gonna turn green with extension of the elbow.Here's another superficial dissection of the upper arm.Let's get oriented.Anterior is this side.This is a-- a-- I'm sorry.It's a left shoulder lateral view, so this is anterior.Here's deltoid.Anterior deltoid attaching on the clavicle middle deltoid on the acromion, and then posterior fibers traveling from the spine of the scapula.All of those deltoid portions are attaching at the deltoid tuberosity here, lateral mid-humerus.Here's the bit of pectoralis major reaching over to insert on one of the lips of the intertubercular groove.Right now in your head, can you tell me which one, lateral or medial?Lateral.Good job.Biceps brachii.Uh, deep to biceps brachii is this brachialis muscle, and then here is brachioradialis arising from the lateral supracondylar ridge.Posteriorly, we see the triceps.So that's the order of musculature from anterior to lateral to posterior on the upper arm, just under the skin.Superficial dissection.Okay, so that was the easy part.Now we're gonna move into the forearm, where there are lots and lots of muscles.That's where we're going to find muscles that control the wrist, and the muscles that control-- the extrinsic muscles that control, uh, the fingers and the thumb.So, as you might guess, anteriorly, if something that's attaching anteriorly shortens, it's gonna be involved in fec-- in flexion.So the story is the same.Anterior flexion, anterior flexion, anterior flexion.So, like the back, where muscles were, uh, organized in superficial, intermediate, and deep layers, in the forearm, we're gonna divide up the muscles into a superficial compartment and a deep compartment.So in this superficial compartment, we find flexors of the wrist.Another teres muscle, round-- uh, co-- but this one is controlling pronation.And something called 'palmaris longus.'It must have something to do with the palm of the hand.Deep to that, we're going to find the digitorums, the flexors of the digits, and a flexor of this 'pollicis' thing.That's the thumb.The fancy Latin name for the thumb.And we'll find another pronator.So that's our job.What makes the job a little bit easier is that these four muscles in the proximal com-- excuse me, in the more superficial layer, all have a common origin.Medial epicondyle of the humerus.Then they go from there and have different insertions.So a good model for these muscles: put the palm of your hand on your medial epicondyle, and then reach for different insertions with your fingers.And you can describe these muscles.We actually call this the 'common flexor tendon' for these muscles.Pronator teres.Index finger reaches towards the lateral radius, and pulls it into pronation.Alright.Where does it insert?Alrighty, here we go.You were listening.I just told you it was the radius.But even if you weren't, consider this.What happens in pronation and supination?The radius moves.Therefore, every muscle that has a job of pronation or supination will insert on the radius, by definition.So, here's a case where understanding the function can help you avoid a task of memorization.If your function is pronation or supination, you know it's gonna attach to the radius.It's going to insert on the radius.Pronator teres.Originates from the medial epicondyle, picks up a little bit of origin on the ulna, and inserts on the radius, in fact; the middle-lateral radius.It pronates, due to its insertion on the radius.And because it does cross the elbow joint, it's gonna assist a little bit with elbow flexion.What does that mean, 'assist with elbow flexion'?Isn't it an elbow flexor, or not?Yes, it is an elbow flexor.But, it does not have a very big moment arm, so it's much less important in terms of the amount of flexor torque it can generate at the elbow.So we say it 'assists with.'If your life depended on it, you would root-- recruit pronator teres to help out, but it's only going to be an incremental addition to that total amount of elbow torque that you're gonna generate.That's what the word 'assist' means.It does flex, but not so important.So let's look at his pronator teres in action.There's the path, and pronating the forearm.Thank you very much, Mr. Muscle Guy.Now.Moving on.Click where you think flexor carpi radialis inserts.Flexor carpi radialis inserts.Here I'm asking you to think about the function suggested by the name of that muscle, and clues to where you might find it, also based on its name.So, good job everybody who clicked on something that wasn't the radius or the ulna.It cannot flex the carpis, the wrist bones, unless it inserts not on the radius.If it inserts on the radius, it doesn't reach the wrist, so it can't function there.And in fact, it spans all of these carpals, and inserts here.Flexor carpi radialis takes origin from that medial epicondyle of the humerus, common flexor tendon, and inserts on the base of the second and third metacarpals.So it completely skips the carpals, and attaches distal to them, on the base of metacarpals-- in fact, two and three.What-- what's important about two and three?Well, they're over towards the radial side of the wrist.Now, if your flexor carpi radialis, and your job-- and your name says you're on the radial side of the wrist, why would you not insert on the base of the first metacarpal?That's the one that's the most radial of all the metacarpals.Why would you not attach there?Well, if you did, and you shortened, what would happen?Thumb abduction.You'd pull your first metacarpal into abduction.Because that joint is special for our thumbs, we want to reach to the base of the second and third.Because tho-- that carpo--metacarpal joints-- those carpo-metacarpal joints are-- have more limited mobility.So instead of getting motion at the carpo-metacarpal joint like you do you with the first, you get motion at the risk.And, radial deviation.When it shortens, not only is that muscle gonna flex the wrist, but it's gonna pull the wrist towards the radial side-- uh, radial deviate it, so we'll see-- ooh!We have a little movie.He's calling radial deviation, 'abduction at the wrist.'Alrighty.Common flexor tendon, pronator teres.Here's flexor carpi radialis traveling to the base of the second and third metacarpals.You might have noticed in that video a band of connective tissue, spanning the distal anterior forearm transversely.That's the flexor retinaculum.It's holding down, tethering, all of these flexors so they don't pop out when you flex your wrist.We'll see a demo here of his lovely job of radial deviation and flexion of the wrist.Thank you, flexor carpi radialis.Now, here's a muscle.Palmaris longus.Same origin: common flexor tendon, medial epicondyle.But it inserts not into a bone, but in something called the 'palmar aponeurosis.'Now, you know a aponeurosis is a flat-- flattened connective tissue structure.So it inserts into that tough fascia in the palm of your hand.And by so doing that, it pulls that fascia towards the medial epicondyle, which is gonna assist with wrist flexion.Now what is interesting and fun-- dare I say 'fun' about palmaris longus-- is that we don't all have them.In fact, I have one in one forearm, and I'm missing it in the other forearm.So, we're gonna check to see who's got them in here.Uh, here's palmaris longus, and you can see how it's gonna be easy to find, because it can lay anterior to that flexor retinaculum, which means it's gonna pop out.So let's look at his.Look at how it pops right out there.Okay, so here's how you can check.We have to find-- we're actually gonna be looking for two tendons: flexor carpi radialis, 'FCR,' and palmaris longus.And you can see in the top ficture-- picture, if you flex-- if you flex and adduct your thumb and resist wrist flexion, these tendons will pop out.In my left wrist, I have two tendons that I can palpate easily, but in my right,  I only have one.So I'm missing palmaris longus in my right wrist.How we doing out there?Well, let's find out.Let's see what our 230 population looks like.If you-- if you're having a hard time finding these muscles, usu-- you can... resist-- uh, try to flex your wrist against resistance.Okay.So let's see how we're doing.Okay, so we have some people like me in here.Some asymmetrical forearms.But looks like we have two-thirds double representation of palmaris longus, and another third that is one or the other.Someone could do a literature review on this, and find out what the population norm is out there.If-- if we-- if we know that.Okay.Pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and now we're looking for number four in the superficial group.And of course we need a 'flexor carpi ulnaris.'So that's who's up next.Common origin, and inserting on the pisiform bone, over there.And picks up a bit of the base of the fifth metacarpal, as well.Wrist flexion, like extensor carpi radialis-- excuse me, like flexor carpi radialis, but ulnar deviation, because it's inserting on the ulnar side of the wrist, over there by the pisiform, on the ulna side.So let's...That would be ulnar deviation.So there it is, identified for you.Pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris.Nice and tidy.I know it's anterior 'cause there's the pisiform.I'm looking at ulnar deviation and radial deviation.And you can see that flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor carpi radialis are turning green opposite to each other, because they're antagonists in the frontal plane-- that is, with respect to ulnar and radial deviation.Okay, click on the landmark where the superficial wrist flexor muscles have origin.Superficial.That's the group we're just talking about.Wrist flexor muscles have origin.Flexor muscles.You're looking for anterior view, and you are looking for medial.And some of you found it.Origin.Flexor.Anterior, medial humerus.Distal.Medial epicondyle.Let the words help you.So, let's go deep, and finish this job.We're looking for flexors of the fingers, the thumb, and another pronator.And it looks like we have superficial and profound, or deep, finger flexors.Ohp, number of the day.Someone suggest a number.Thank you, and it is 17.Thank you very much.Here we go.Looking forward to March 17th.Okay.Good work.Thank you, Mr. 17.Flexor digit-- digitorum superficialis.What does this tell us?It's a flexor; it must be interior.We know where it has to insert; somewhere on the digits, because that's its job.To flex the digits.And it's more superficial than the other one.So.Takes origin, again, from that medial side.Medial epicondyle of the humerus, but also has some origin on the ulna and radius.So, picking up origin lots of places, but on that medial side of the humerus, as we've come to expect.Middle phalanx of the four fingers.So, look at your fingers.Look-- find the middle phalanx, and think about what this muscle does and does not do.It can flex the wrist.It can flex the metacarpal-phalangeal joint.It can flex the proximal interphalangeal joint.But because it doesn't reach all the way to the distal phalanx, it has no function at that distal interphalangeal joint.'P,' 'I,' 'P.'Proximal interphalangeal joint, is what this one does.That must be me.How is that me?I don't know how that is me.I'm sorry.Maybe I'll mute until otherwise needed.Alright.And you can see that he's not flexing his pro-- his distal interphalangeal joint.Okay.In contrast, flexor digitorum profundus, deep, profound, reaches all the way to the distal phalanges of those four fingers.So now, it can flex the 'D,' 'I,' 'P' joint.The little tips of your fingers.An interesting question is: how does it get there without bumping into the flexor digitorum superficialis insertion on the middle phalanges?This muscle does not reach as far proximally.It has origin from the ulna and the interosseous membr-- -brane.Remember, that's just the connective tissue, uh, between the ulna and the radius.And look for his distal interphalangeal joint flexion.There he goes.Okay.So that's the flexor digitorum profundus underway.Click where you think flexor pollicis longus inserts.And you might want to review mentally what flexion of the pollicis looks like, before you assign an insertion location.Okay.Yes.The distal phalanx of the thumb.Flexor pollicis longus arises, again, from the forearm bones, mostly the radius, and the-- and the interosseous membrane.And it inserts in the distal phalanx of the thumb, as you just presumed.So in this way, it's like flexor digitorum profundus.Reaches all the way to the distal phalanx.What I want you to really focus on, on these finger muscles, is where they insert.You know their origin's gonna be somewhere anterior.On the forearm bones, maybe some of them on the medial epicondyle.Really focus on their insertion, because that's what's gonna discriminate function among these muscles.What does it do?Flex-- oop, I'm showing myself flexion.Flexshing-- flexing that interphalangeal joint of the thumb, and also pulling the whole thumb over into flexion.Flexing, flexing.Flexor digitorum profundus, sending its tendons to the distal phalanges of the fingers.Flexor pollicis longus, sending its tendon to the distal phalanx of the thumb.Now, I asked you, previously, how does flexor digitorum profundus reach the distal phalanges without bumping into the superficialis?Check this out.The superficialis tendons split, and attach on the lateral aspects of that-- of those middle phalanges.And digitorum longus passes through that split to reach to the distal phalanges.Pretty cool.The superficialis splits.Oh, what do you think this muscle might do?Are we anterior or posterior?If those muscle fibers shortened, what happens?What are the bones?Woohoo!Hooray!You got it right.So, how did you come to that conclusion?I'm anterior, because there's the pisiform.Here is a little bone and a big bone.The big bone, distally, of the forearm is the radius.And so this is the slender little ulna, with its head distal.When these muscles-- when these muscle fibers shorten, either the ulna is gonna move towards the radius, or the radius is gonna move towards the ulna.The ulna doesn't move; only the radius can move.So, in fact, we know this is the origin on the ulna, and here's the insertion on the radius.And if you pull the radius towards the ulna, you're gonna get pronation, which is what you just sorted out.Pronator quadratus.It's shaped like a quadrilateral.Pronator quadratus.It's a little cuff bracelet on the anterior side.You know origin and insertion, because you know that it's gotta insert on the radius.So whatever its origin is, you know where it inserts, on the radius.And, it's a pronator, as its name says.Okay, that's it.Look at what we have done.We have done four superfic-- ooh.No, no, no, no, no.I didn't put a summary in.Let me change my tune.So we just looked at four superficial flexor muscles.Four deep muscles, one of which was a-- a pronator.A pronator in the superficial group two.We can now flex the fingers, thumbs, and wrist.We can ulnar and laterally deviate.Is-- if life were good, the posterior forearm would be organized just like the anterior side, so we could just switch out flexor for extensor.Switch out pronator for supinator, and all would be well.Well, some similarities, and some differences.So, first of all, we had a flexor carpi radialis.But now we have two muscles; one that's named 'longus,' and one that's named 'brevis.'So that's double the workHalf the work, for the fingers, because there's only one extensor digitorum-- there's not a superficial and deep one.But, it looks like they're-- some muscles have-- some fingers have special extensors.Not just the thumb.So extensor digiti minimi.This would be the little finger.Hmm, I wonder what that muscle does.And then we do have an extensor of the uln-- on the ulnar side of the wrist.On the-- deep to those muscles, so we do have a superficial and a deep group-- there's a supinator, finally.We don't have two supinators, just one, and it's deep.Extensor indicis, index finger.Another special, uh, finger with its own extensor muscle.And now, three muscles related to the thumb.We saw a flexor pollicis longus previously, and we do have, now, an extensor pollicis longus.That's nice.Probably know where that one inserts.But, we also have a short one, the brevis, and an abductor thrown in for good measure.Because we do wanna control that mobility in the thumb, so we need to have some muscles to do that.So.Where do you think the wrist extensors might originate?Is there going to be anything lovely and expected about the wrist extensor origin?Lovely and predictable, based on what we know already.Hmm.And here we go again.If the flexors have origin on the anterior surface, we're probably gonna be looking for origins on the posterior surface for the extensors.So I'm going to like these muscles over here, 'cause this is the posterior aspect.There's the olecranon process, and there's no pisiform here.And, I said, 'origin,' so I'm gonna look proximal.And in fact, focusing in, the lateral epicondyle is now going to be busy.That's analogous.So let's start looking at these muscles specifically.Extensor carpi-- carpi radialis longus and extensor carpi radialis brevis.A short and a long one.Where do they take origin?Lateral epicondyle.Woohoo!And the long one picks up some origin more proximally, on the lateral supracondylar ridge, which is proximal to the lateral condyle of the humerus.So that's gonna be the long one.And, previously, on the flexor side, flexor carpi radialis inserted on the base of the second and third metacarpals.The extensors: one inserts on the second, one inserts on the base of the third metacarpal, posteriorly.What do these muscles do?Extend and hyperextend the wrist, as the name suggests.And because they're on the radial side, they're gonna act synergistically with flexor carpi radialis, to radially deviate the wrist.Looking at the posterior forearm now, when we're considering extension.And let's look here-- we're looking at the lateral side of the wrist.And we will be looking at the posterior aspect.And see these extensors turning green with hyperextension of the wrist, extensor carpi radialis, longus and brevis.Hmm.What do you think?Which one is the long one, and which one is the short one?Get oriented.Is this an anterior or posterior forearm?I think we're looking at the olecranon process, so this is posterior.What's lateral; what's medial?You're right.So, the long one, the long head, has a more proximal origin, and it happens to be the one that inserts on the base of the second.Because there are so many words in these names, sometimes I'm using these shortcuts, with an abbreviation.Extensor digitorum.Is this going to be like flexor digitorum superficialis, or flexor digitorum profundus?Is it gonna insert on the middle or distal phalanges?Both!So there's a structure called the 'extensor hood,' or an expansion of this extensor tendon that fans out and attaches along this-- the lateral aspects of the proximal and distal phalanges.So when this muscle engages and is activated, you get extension of both the-- the proximal and distal interphalangeal joints.So you get double bang for your nervous system buck, when this muscle engages.So any of you who might be string players out there, or piano players, are you wondering where all of the fine control of your fingers come from?Because the-- the flexors and extensors that we've talked about seem to be controlling all four fingers at the same time, which is how I play piano.Okay.So it turns out that fine control of the fingers, ab- and adduction, and control of this-- fine control of the carpometacarpal-- excuse me.Metacarpal-phalangeal joints.Those are muscles that are found in the palm of the hand.The intrinsic hand muscles.So we're not talking about those in this course.Ooh, I skipped it.You saw there that there's also an extensor retinaculum to hold down the extensor tendons.Very easy to find the tendons of your extensor digitorum muscle.They pop right out.There's just skin laying over these tendons, so they are quite superficial and easy to see.Extensor digiti minimi.Uh, lateral epicondyle, like many of these extensors, opposite to the flexors.That part is good.We have a general ballpark of origin for many of these flexors and extensors.And this one inserts into the middle and distal phalanges of just digit number five, the little finger.Why, evolutionarily, we needed to do this, I do not know.I say 'evolutionarily' because what was the function behind this structure of this individual muscle?I don't know.Click on 'extensor carpi ulnaris.'Where would flexor carpi ulnaris insert, and is the extensor carpi ulnaris like that, or not?Okay.Gotta be careful here.Let's see what we've got.Hmm.We want the muscle whose tendon inserts on the base of the fifth metacarpal.This muscle that some of you clicked on is actually on the anterior side-- taking origin from the medial epicondyle, not the lateral epicondyle, and is in fact, a flexor.So, here's the extensor, attaching on the base of the fifth.What's muscle one?Extensor digitorum, and you can see these extensor expansions, extensor hoods.Extensor carpi ulnaris, lateral epicondyle of the humerus, base of the fifth metacarpal.The flexor carpi ulnaris attached on the pisiform and the base of the fifth.So, very much like it.Just kind of the opposite side of the coin, like you would expect.Wrist extension, hyperextension, and works together with flexor carpi ulnaris to generate ulnar deviation.Ulnar deviation, and hyperextension.And we'll see here, extensor carpi ulnaris turning green with extension and hyperextension.Notice it's working opposite to flexor carpi ulnaris.Alright.Last five, last five.Here we go.So we're gonna look for the supinator.Where might that be?An extensor, a separate extensor of the index finger, and then these thumb muscles.Let's go.Supinator has origin on the humerus and the ulna; lateral side, which is what we would expect from a posterior muscle.And inserts on the radius; anterolateral proximal radius.So it wraps around the radius from the back, grabs it, and pulls it into supination.Okay, let's get oriented.Any idea what muscle number one might be?One of the first muscles today?Extensor of the elbow that's not triceps?That's anconeus, number one.Origin: lateral epicondyle.Insertion on the ulna, here.Supinator has a little bit of lateral epicondyle attachment, ulnar origin, and it's got a diagonal path that we can see here.All of these muscles that we're talking about now pass downward-- or, distally and laterally.That's supinator.And, go ahead and type in what we just talked about that.That would be anconeus.How long does it take to type 'anconeus'?Your first, fun time spelling that muscle.'Anconeus.'Not too bad.Okay.And here we go.Supinator shortens with supination.That's because it's a supinator.So it's gonna turn green when it pulls that anterolateral radius towards its posterior origin, and supinates.Extensor indicis.Here we go.Doesn't reach all the way proximally to the humerus.Takes origin posterior ulna and interosseous membrane.And ex-- inserts into the extensor expansion of digit number two, the index finger, and extends it.Politicians aren't supposed to use this finger.You're not supposed to point at your audience if you're a politician 'cause it's offensive, so they have to curb their extensor indicis muscles.Okay, so that's that.Now we're gonna talk about the last three muscles of the day that're interesting.They form something called the 'anatomical snuff box.'So if you abduct your thumb, you can see a space right on the lateral-most aspect of your wrist.That's the anatomical snuff box.If you abduct and, uh-- hyperextend and abduct, it really pops out.So there are two tendons on one side.Those are the two tenants you can see most laterally.And then, one tendon on the other side of the snuff box.And those are the tendons of the muscles we're about to talk about.Abductor pollicis longus.'Abductor' tells you where this muscle inserts.On the thumb, but where on the thumb?Abduction happens at the carpometacarpal joint.So this muscle attaches on the first metacarpal, so it can pull that metacarpal into abduction.Diagonal pathway across posterior forearm inserts on the base of the first, and takes origin from everything back there.Ulna, radius, and interosseous membrane.Important, important, important is its insertion.Origin: posterior forearm.Abducts and extends the first carpometacart-- -carpal joint.And then here's some detail: forms the lateral radial border of the anatomical snuff box.So, you're looking at your snuff box, likely in a pronated position of your forearm.But remember, this is the thumb side, so it's lateral.So it's one of this pair of tendons here, right on this lateral aspect of your wrist.Here's the second of that pair of muscles, forming the lateral border of the snuff box.Extensor pollicis brevis.'Brevis' means it's shorter.So that would suggest to me that when you extend the thumb, the shorter one is probably gonna be attaching on the more proximal phalanx of the thumb.And in fact, that is its insertion.Takes or-- origin again: posterior forearm.Radius and interosseous membrane.And what does it do?Extends the first metacarpal phalangeal joint.If you were hitchhiking, you would use your extensor pollicis brevis to-- or-- no, no!Thumbs up.Thumbs up.Extensor pollicis brevis.There we go.Medial border is the last muscle of the day.Extensor pollicis longus.And that one is going to arise more medially on the ulna, but it inserts on the distal phalanx of the thumb.So finally, we have, um, some mechanism to extend this interphalangeal joint of the thumb.Guess I have a mobile joint, 'cause I have a curly thumb when I extend.My thumbs-up is curly.Okay, so let's-- let's try to make sense of this.Here is a deep dissection of the posterior forearm.There's anconeus.This is lateral epicondyle.And here are these deep diagonal muscles.This one, more-- most proximally, is supinator, that's not labeled here.And then here are the-- um, the four anatomical snuff bo-- excuse me.The three anatomical snuff box muscles.And finally, this extensor indicis.So these are the five deep muscles shown here.So the most proximal is abductor pollicis longus.Paired with that, to form the lateral side of the snuff box, is the extensor pollicis brevis.So I remember this because there's a 'b' in 'abductor,' and there's a 'b' in 'brevis.'So the abductor and the brevis travel together on that lateral aspect of the snuff box.And the extensor pollicis longus forms the medial side of the snuff box.So you can check this out in your own wrist, and try to relate what you see here to the attachments and functions of these muscles.And then when you get to an exam, you just have to look at your wrist, and it will be all there for you.So here is a cadaver view.So we're looking here at a right arm.And this is a posterior left arm, not to be confused.So here are these four distinctive diagonal-going muscles here.Most proximal is the abductor, and then extensor brevis, and then finally, separate from those two, is extensor pollicis longus.Four and five, you can really see where that-- how that snuff box space is formed.And why there's a hollow.There's just not any tissue there to fill up that space.It appears that Active Platform--Active Learning Platform is not cooperating.It's gone black on me.So I guess that means we're done for the day.I think I have some videos for you to look at here, for the rest of the slides.If not, I'll add in one or two more slides at the beginning of next time.So the good news is, nothing new next time.We'll just rehearse these muscles again on Wednesday.So good work in here this morning.And I will see--