Good morning, everyone.There was some snow to surprise us when we opened our eyes this morning.March in Michigan.So, just to give you a heads-up, we're gonna work hard today.It's a redux lecture, so I will introduce no new material.We will just be reviewing the muscles from last time.I'm gonna start with a video that we missed at the end of the lecture, and then we'll move on to questions, questions, questions.Why do-- why do we hear nothing?Not muted.Oh!I am muted.Third time's a charm.We'll get there.So your anatomical language is coming right along.A month ago, about three-quarters of the words he just used would have gone, 'oop,' right over your head, but now it's starting to lay in and make sense.So let's look at triceps doing its job at the glenohumeral joint, which is extension.It's posterior to the joint.It's an extensor.And, so we will be looking at the long head.So we'll see posterior deltoid, teres major, and triceps brachii long head all acting synergistically to extend the glenohumeral joint.Acting together, they're all extensors, so they act synergistically.Okay.So now, here we go.Do you remember anything about those rotator cuff muscles that you saw for the first time on Monday?Remember to figure out what's anterior, what's posterior, first.Get oriented.Bony landmarks, second.Can that give you a clue, which muscle might be which?And then you are a good 85 percent of the way there, by just looking at the bony anatomy, at least for naming these muscles.A few more seconds.Anybody need more time?Okay, we're good.Let us see what we've got.We have convergence on 'b,' 'c,' 'd,' 'a,' whatever that is.So let's move forward.I've got ev-- everything labeled for you here.So I asked you first to look at the bony anatomy.We can see this is anterior, because there's the coracoid process coming out at us.And of course, this is posterior because we can see the spine of the scapula.Filling the space, su-- the supraspinous fossa, supraspinatus, infraspinatus.And then remembering that teres minor is always associated with infraspinatus.The 'i' of 'infraspinatus' goes with the 'i' of 'minor' here, in my way of thinking about it.And of course, subscapularis is the only anterior one of these muscles.It attaches on the anterior or deep surface of the scapula, and attaches anteriorly on the humerus.That's gonna be really important for understanding its function, because it's different from all of the other rotator cuff muscles with that anterior attachment.And lookie here!We've got a little stub of biceps brachii long head.Right there, in that intertubercular groove between the lesser tubercle, where subscapularis attaches, and the greater tubercle.A lot to see in this one image.Okay, so let's look at something you might ask to be-- or ask to do-- if you have a rotator cuff injury like this woman.So she is doing what movement against resistance here?Right?Medial rotation is what is-- she's trying to strengthen her medial rotator in this task, right?'Cause she-- when she stretches that TheraBand, it's gonna take strength in her medial rotator.So the question is: what muscle might that be?I'm learning.I'm gonna turn off YouTube before I move on.So what muscles is she strengthening?What is her physical therapist targeting with this task?Anybody want more time?Okay, we are here.We have chosen not these top two, but some of these bottom muscles, and the answer is... look at that.The one rotator cuff muscle that is a medial rotator is subscapularis because of its anterior attachment that we just looked at.Pull that anterior surface of the humerus towards the scapula, you get medial rotation at the glenohumeral joint.But teres major is also a medial rotator because of its attachment, also anteriorly, on the humerus.So what other muscle might be a medial rotator, now that you see teres major up there?What muscle do you pair in your mind with teres major?Latissimus dorsi.Attaches right next to teres major on anterior humerus.Alrighty.What is muscle two?Okay.Here is muscle two, and-- I just talked about that, so this one's gonna be a brain saver for you.Find your bony landmarks, get on solid ground, skeletally.Figure out: are you anterior-posterior?What's that big, blue, blobby thing up there?That's a bursa.That is a sac of fluid that is-- that lays between the supraspinatus tendon-- or, excuse me.Subs-- well.Supraspinatus tendon, and this bony acromion.So it protects that supraspinatus tendon when you abduct your glenohumeral joint, and bring that soft, squishy tendon close to that bony structure to help prevent-- to cushion it, so it isn't damaged.Okay.So let's see what you have got here.And you have decided, of course, that it's the long head.Muscle one is deltoid.It's been cut away from the acromion, and from the lateral clavicle, so we can see deep to that.And look at this very proximal anterior portion of the humerus.Alrighty.Moving on.When you wear a heavy backpack, you get tired in some muscles, because you do this.You elevate your shoulder girdle to resist that backpack depressing your shoulder girdle.So what-- have we got any elevators up here?It's likely that you don't know this yet, from memorizing.So is there anything in these muscle names, or can you th-- remember anything from what you heard on Monday?That's where I expect you to be right now.I expect that you will mostly not get these correct today, so don't stress about that.We're working through this.All you need to do is to really come up with your best answer.It might confirm your best answer, and then you can-- you know that you know it.Or it can suggest to you how you might be able to assemble this information in your head.Okay, so let's see.We have very tired levator scapulae and trapezius.Yes.So those upper fibers of trapezius elevated the shoulder girdle.And of course, levator scapulae-- since levator scapulae is the only one in here, even if you don't remember trapezius, you're gonna be doing well with that.Okay, ooh.Here's a young man.Where does this muscle insert?Okay, what the heck is that muscle?And notice I've used the word 'insert.'So I really, in this case, care where it inserts, and not where it originates.So what are your choices?There you go.You might also notice pectoralis major, deltoid, biceps.You can even see his triceps.You can see his rectus abdominis.You can see his sternocleidomastoid.And all of these muscles are next week.Okay.Huh.Toss up.Spine of scapula and lateral clavicle.Lateral clavicle.And why is that?We are looking-- this is trapezius.And yes, trapezius attaches on the spine of the scapula, the acromion, and the lateral clavicle, but we're really looking at his bulked-up upper fibers of trapezius.That's the superior portion of trapezius, and that's the part that attaches anteriorly, actually, onto the lateral clavicle.Now why did I put this question in?Was I just torturing you about a detail of trapezius?No, I'm trying to help you remember that trapezius actually does attach on the clavicle.And, that's what we have here.This asterisk represents these upper fibers of trapezius, and you can see them there, attaching to the lateral clavicle.A lot of other muscles here: pectoralis major, anterior deltoid, sternocleidomastoid.We've got pectoralis minor deep to prote-- uh, pectoralis major.Rectus abdominis, external oblique.We can see serratus anterior, and we can see latissimus dorsi.Okay.What muscle attaches at three?We're gonna spend some time with the clavicle.You saw a lot of clavicles, if you looked at the red carpet for the Oscars.It's all those underweight women.It's just a nice 'clavicle display' moment.Here, blue is meaningful.It's an insertion at one.It is an origin at three.Whoo.So this is a two-level question.What the heck attaches on the clavicle, and then, which of those attachments are origins or insertions?This is-- this requires full engagement of that grey matter that you've got.Okay, so let's see what you chose.And it's either a pectoralis major, clavicular head, or anterior deltoid, and anterior doy-- deltoid has it.What's wrong with the pectoralis major clavicular head?Where does that attach?Medial.Medial clavicle.Anterior deltoid is lateral clavicle.And here-- here it's labeled for you.So the clavicle is quite busy.Anterior deltoid attaches lateral clavicle, and that's the origin, because the insertion is gonna be on the humerus, at that deltoid tuberosity.We saw, a moment ago that trapezius superior fibers attached on the lateral clavicle, but it's blue here, 'cause it's the insertion, on the clavicle, for trapezius.Sternocleidomastoid, of course, attaches on the clavicle and pectoralis major, clavicular head, attaches medially on the clavicle.A lot going on there, on that clavicle.And here we have it, in the cadaver, if you let me see if I-- ooh, I have a question here.To see what you can do for identifying these muscles.If you put the number in your answer, that will be helpful to you later, when you look at it.Are we anterior or posterior?Any bony landmarks you can recognize?Maybe you can see better.Okay, let's talk through this.I see a clavicle here, an acromion, eight is sternocleidomastoid, right?Sternum, clavicle, mastoid process.Three is that sneaky superior fibers of trapezius, inserting on the lateral clavicle.And now we know that just across the street, attaching on the anterior part of the clavicle laterally, is anterior deltoid, which we can see really beautifully here, is number two.Now, what I particularly like about this dissection is what you can see with regards to pectoralis major.It's very clear, the separation between the clavicular head of pectoralis major, number '14' here.And then the sternal head, also 14, but you can actually see that it's two separate heads of attachment, of this muscle.Two separate parts.Also, you can see this structure.It's labeled '15.'It's a vein, so if you've ever looked at somebody in the gym, somebody really lean, you can see this vein between anterior deltoid and pectoralis major clavicular head.Let's pop back to this guy.You can't see it in him.It would lay right in that crease, and you can see it in this dissection here.It's a superficial vessel.Okay.So you have laid in some answers there.Look at that.Beautiful job.Good work.And they're all labeled for you here.Ah.This is interesting.Name the muscles that attach at four, five, eight and nine.I'm gonna open up this question, and show you where they are.Here's nine.Here's eight.Here's five.Doo-do-do, doo-do-do, all the way around.Doo-do-do.And here's four.Hmm-hm-hm, hmm-hm-hm, hmm-hm-hm, hmm-hm-hm, hmm-hm-hm.Apparently four and five get songs.What bones are these?Which view of the bones are these?Your 3-D spatial thinking is what's required this morning.Okay.Here we go.And, let's talk about this.Ooh, we have lot-- ooh, we have one big winner, but we have some distributions.But I wanna back up here, and talk about it before I give you the answer key for this.So we've got the clavicle, medial end, or sternal end-- and that's-- number nine is sternocleidomastoid, of course.And what attaches on the medial aspect of, in this case, the anterior clavicle-- that's pectoralis major clavicular head.Then, here-- number five is deltoid.Anterior portion attaches on this lateral clavicle.Middle portion attaches to the acromion of the scapula.And posterior deltoid attaches to the spine of the scapula.These are the same bony attachments as trapezius.Superior fibers inserting on this lateral clavicle, also attaching to the spine of the scapula.So that's kind of interesting.Now, this is how the scapula and clavicle actually are positioned, relative to each other in the body.If that camera was up there and doing an x-ray of my shoulder girdle, this is how the bones would be oriented with respect to each other.And look what you see poking out, inferior to the lateral clavicle: the coracoid process.That's why you can feel it, under your lab-- lateral clavicle, because it truly has an anterior projection.And of course, we know which muscles take advantage of that.A number of anterior muscles on this chest wall: pectoralis minor, biceps brachiae-- uh, brachii short head, and coracobrachialis.So the muscles that actually attach to that coracoid process on the scapula are found anteriorly.So, I've just colored things in for you here.Right?Ooh!Hello, old guy.So we've got a couple of muscles indicated here.And this thing.Pacemaker.And let's see what you remember about what the function of those two muscles are.So you've got a two-step process here.What are those muscles?And then, what is their function?One of the functions you could tell me right now, without even knowing the name of the muscles, just because of where they are, with respect to the glenohumeral joint-- you already know one of the functions.But that other one might be trickier.He's got a six-pack, but the skin's a little bit-- got collagen, is aged, and so the skin wrinkles over it.There's his platysma, that muscle that I said that we have in the neck like the horses' 'skin-shaker' muscle, to get rid of the flies.There you can see his trapezius.His superior portion of trapeze, attaching on his lateral clavicle.Okay.So what do you think you're looking at here?You're looking at muscles that flex.That's what we can get, because they're anterior.And medial rotation.So, pectoralis major clavicular head, and anterior deltoid both attach rather laterally-- anterolaterally.And so they pull that portion of the humerus towards their origins medially, and that's medial rotation.You might have even been able to guess that, just connecting the dots, on pectoralis major.And I think this is-- uhp!There we go.So, muscle number one is this lateral clavicle anterior deltoid, and two is deep to pectoralis major.And there's the pectoralis minor attaching on the coracoid process.So I'm just telling you the answers to these questions.Right now, you can ask yourself that later when you review and hear the answers for you.And you can see where that vain comes from.Okay.What functions are shared by pectoralis minor, the rhomboids, and levator scapulae?Okay.Before you even try to think about that, see if you know anything about where those muscles are, in your mind.Are they anterior or posterior?And then take it from there.Alrighty.We have some choices.And our answer is 'downward rotation.'So levator scapulae; we know that that elevates.The rhomboids can also elevate, but pectoralis minor is tugging downward, pulling downward on the scapula, so it's not an elevator.And all of these muscles contribute to downward rotation.Pectoralis minor pulls down on the lateral side of the scapula, the coracoid process-- that's downward rotation.The other two muscles pull up on the medial aspect of the scapula, that also sends the glenoid fossa downward-facing dog.And here we go.Here's what I just-- was asking you to visualize.Downward from pectoralis minor.On the lateral aspect, upward from levator scapulae, and the rhombuy-- -boids on the medial aspect.That rotates the scapula in the same way.Here's a concept.So levator scapula and rhomboids are elevating; pectoralis minor is depressing.They cancel each other out, and you just get double-- double whammy, double hit on the rotation function in the downward direction.And we call that 'neutralization.'Alrighty.Another slide, another muscle.What is muscle one?Where are we?What joint is this?Anterior or posterior?Once you know that, consider your own body.Start thinking muscles.And this is the moment that we sort out those two heads of biceps, right?And, you've done it, mostly.So, here's some meat.How do you get oriented when you see some meat?Well, you look for the bones.There's coracoid process; that tells me I'm anterior.And yep, there's acromion.Head of the humerus.And biceps-- one of its head is in that groove.So time to straighten this out.Short head attaches on that coracoid process.Long head goes through the groove.Alright?So what's the other muscle here?Coracobrachialis, attaching also on the coracoid process, together with the short head.And, there's a little tendon cut off here.What is this little tendon?What muscle does that belong to?What's the third muscle that attaches here?One, two, three on the coracoid process.What's the third one?It's aiming this way.Pec minor.Right.Okay.Name one of these.How nice I am.See if you can name the one that's hardest for you to name.Find your bony landmarks.Get oriented.How deep are we?By the way, these are lymph nodes, in your armpit.You probably have these swell up from time to time.In your axilla, axillary lymph nodes.Okay.So you have named 'pectorals minor,' of course, because that's the easiest one.So let's, um-- let's talk about it-- it's all labeled here.So let's just talk through it.Pectoralis minor you found, because that's deep to the pectoralis major-- well, first of all, let's get oriented.Clavicle, we're anterior.We're deep because pectoralis major has been cut away, so we can see pectoralis minor deep to it.Now, what are the three muscles that attach to the coracoid process?The two neighbors of pectoralis minor on the coracoid process?Short head of biceps, and coracobrachialis.So, here are those two muscles indicated.Which one is which?That's more advanced for this class than you would ever have to know.But you can deduce your way to the correct answer, because you can see that muscle 15 is swinging towards the other part of biceps here, 17.So that would be my guess.Fourteen attaches more medially.Coracobrachialis attaches more medially on the humerus.So you could sort it out, if push came to shove.And then, of course, 17 is this tendon of biceps passing through that intertubercular groove.And now you know it's the long head.Okay.So, let's look at some bare-naked bones, painted with some attachment sites, and sort-- and sort out what attaches where.Some I'm gonna do a little rehearsal here, on muscle attachments.So proximal or distal?Anterior or posterior?Where is five?Five is the lateral lip of the intertubercular groove.Okay, this is the moment of truth.And you have decided over there on that lateral lip is the pectoralis major.Good job.Of course, another clue is the fact that on the medial side, there're two muscles.And those two muscles are latissimus dorsi and teres major.When this slide got uploaded to Active Learning Platform, the-- what was forward and what was backward got lost, so unfortunately the arrows-- the colors don't show up in the black.Pectoralis major is five.Attaches on the lateral lip.And then latissimus dorsi and teres major, coming from posterior, attach on that medial lip.At three and four.Number of the day.Twelve.Okay.Good job.Look at all-- ooh!Did number two actually lose their 'one'?Alright.Um, if you did, give me a piece of paper and let me know.Oh, okay.This is hard, but I really, really, really like this diagram.Because it helps me understand the rotation function of many of these muscles at the glenohumeral joint.So this is a transverse view, and we're looking at the head of the humerus.And we can tell what the anterior portion-- what the anterior direction is, because here's the intertubercular groove, or, in this diagram, called 'sulcus.'That's a groove.So this is anterior.This must be the glenoid fossa, and the spine of the scapula.And we have a rib, identified here.So now, I need you to see if you can come up with what muscle number four is.Where does it attach?That might give you a clue.Okay.We'll give it a few more seconds.Okay.Bah-boom!Serratus anterior.Good work.Okay.I'm not gonna give you the answers yet.We're gonna talk through this.Serratus anterior attached way over on that medial, or vertebral border, of the scapula.Its muscle fibers run deep to the scapula between the scapula and the ribs, and it originates on this anterolateral rib.So you can really see, now, why serratus anterior prevents winging of the scapula.You can see how it's going to compress that scapula against the rib cage.We saw dramatically last time when this muscle can't be engaged, how that scapula just flies out into space, right?Away from the rib cage.So what's muscle number three?This is deep to the scapula.What muscle takes origin from this deep surface of the scapula?What is the bony landmark called that is the deep surface of the scapula?Subscapularis?There's subscapularis.And where does it attach on the humerus?It's a rotator cuff muscle.Does subscapularis attach anteriorly or posteriorly, on the humerus?Anterior scapula, anterior humerus.That's right.So here's its tendon heading for the lesser tubercle, just like we know it should.Here are two tendons of insertion of two muscles on the medial lip.What are those two?Across the river, here, from muscle six?These are our teres major and latissimus dorsi, okay?So you can see that when they pull in this direction, it's gonna spin that humerus medially.So is this muscle gonna spin that humerus medially, when-- when it engages.And this big muscle attaching on the lateral lip, and then, you find its body on the anterior chest wall is pectoralis major.Deep to pectoralis major is six, pectoralis minor.So this-- this drawing can really help you study function, number one.And why the attachments of these muscles are related to the rotation function.Spend some time here.And here's everything labeled for you.If you want to really challenge herself, draw in infraspinatus and teres minor.Where would you do that?You would add a muscle, infraspinatus, under the spine of the scapula.And you'd reach over to the posterior humerus.And if you do that, you can see how those muscles would be lateral rotators.I really strongly encourage you to do that.That can really help you to understand the lateral rotation function, the rotator-- the other rotator cuff muscles.Alrighty.Find subscapularis insertion, please.You have to put your knowledge of bony anatomy to work, to figure out what's anterior and posterior here, and then you need to apply what you know about subscapularis to that.Okay.Here we go.Which one of these is anterior: 'a,' or 'b'?'A.'We see the intertubercular groove.We know that's anterior.We know subscapularis attaches anteriorly on the scapula, and anteriorly on the humerus, so we're gonna be looking for something.On this anterior surface over here.And, in fact, we'll be looking for the lesser tubercle right here.Beautiful.Beautiful job.And pretty darn close.At least you found where the other rotator cuff muscles insert.So let's go find out what inserts over there.Anteriorly-- so you might have to write this down.Subscapularis is number two, as we just talked about.And then here are the insertions of the rest of the rotator cuff muscles.Infraspinatus and teres minor attach at eight and nine.Very, very proximal on the humerus, but posterior.And supraspinatus attaches, uh, on this most pro-- proximal aspect.So, that's number one.So if you drew in infraspinatus on that other drawing, you'd be able to understand better how it has an opposing rotation function to subscapularis.Which of the rotator cuff muscles laterally rotate the glenohumeral joint?Select all that apply, please.Okay.So, we know that subscapularis is a medial rotator, 'cause we've been talking about that ad nauseum at this point.Supraspinatus doesn't have any rotation function at all.It's an abductor.So that leaves the two muscles that attach posteriorly on the humerus.So, the correct answers are 'b' and 'c.'Both of these, both of these.And that is because look at where they attach.They are both lateral rotators.They have similar origins.Or at least, they came from the same surface of the scapula.And they attach on the same surface of the humerus, so they are both lateral rotators.Okay.It's cross-section time.Can you find the trapezius anywhere here?What am I looking at?This is a sagittal view of a fellow who, sadly, has lost his upper extremity.A med-- uh, the chainsaw whacked through his thorax here, in a sagittal section.So can you find trapezius?Okay, let's see what you have found.Well, this is really good work.And the reason that that looks like it would be suspiciously trapezius is two things.You know trapezius is very superficial.Check.Right under the skin.And you know something about where it attaches.It attaches on the spine of the scapula.So you've got two indicators that this, in fact, is trapezius.So, good work.And of course, let's look anterior, now, on this fella.What's superficial on the anterior side?Of course, pectoralis major.And then deep to pectoralis major is pectoralis minor.Those are the only clues that we have00 we have here, in this particular view.We haven't seen this view before.So we're using what we know about the relationship between muscles to find our way through this treasure map.Okay.And there're some of those axillary lymph nodes again.Here's the clavicle.And a muscle we haven't talked about, the subclavius muscle, just right under the clavicle.Did I say, 'just under'?Excuse me.'Just inferior' to the clavicle.Okay.So here we go again.Oh.No, I put this in just for you to quiz yourself.These are the same three muscles we just identified.So now, you can please find supraspinatus in all of this.Okay, so let's see what we've got now.And of course, you found supraspinatus because you, number one, read this word carefully, and realized we were talking about 'supra-' and not 'sub-'.Check.You found the spine of-- you found the scapula, the spine of the scapula, the supraspinous fossa, so that must be supraspinatus.So, good work.And then, of course, we have the other muscles that you can identify here.Infraspinatus, just inferior to the spine of the scapula, and subscapularis, how you can really see how it fills that subscapular fossa.And you find it on the deep, or anterior surface, of the scapula.Okay, so you can probably imagine what the job is that is coming.These three muscles.But first, there is-- for your self-quizzing pleasure, an unlabeled image.Because of course, cross sections will show up on the exam.So now, can you find teres major?I have confidence in you.Please find teres major.The answer is totally what you know about the relationships between these three muscles, since there is virtually-- there's very little here in terms of attachment to help you sort that-- this out.Oh, there's some information there.Okay.You're-- you've done it.The majority of you nailed it.Right there.You're right.So how do we know that?We identified this muscle as 'infraspinatus.'Adjacent to infraspinatus-- we always pair infraspinatus with one other muscle, and that is teres minor.So here's teres minor.Inferior to teres minor is teres major.Both of these muscles have attachment on the scapula.And, so that leaves the mystery muscle.The muscle that is associated with teres major: latissimus dorsi.Okay.So there's everything labeled for you.And here is a quiz question for you.Okay.Whoo!Okay, still not done.Vertebral border of the scapula.What does that bring to mind?First of all, are we talking the medial or lateral border of the scapula?And then, what might attach to that vertebral border of the scapula?The vertebral border, and only the vertebral border, I might add.Okay, let's see what you chose.Hmm.We're a little bit scattered, but we do have enough-- majority opinion for 'd,' and that majority is correct.So let's talk about why.When I said, 'the vertebral border, and only the vertebral border,' that means we can rule out subscapularis and infraspinatus, because those fill huge regions on the scapula.Ohp.So we can also eliminate 'a,' 'b,' and 'c,' just on that, just by me saying, 'only vertebral border.'Serratus anterior attaches on the deep side of the vertebral border.Rhomboids attach on the more superficial side, or the posterior side.And let's look at some pictures of that.Muscles attach to the vertebral border of the scapula, so let's get oriented.This is a posterior view of a scapula.This is the anterior view of a scapula.There's the coracoid process.There's the spine of the process-- uh, spine of the scapula.So, here is the vertebral border, when we're looking at a posterior view, and here's the vertebral border if we're looking at an anterior view of the scapula.Now, do I ask you about this?No.So, let's just-- while it's here, let's just talk through what we can see.Here is the infraspinous fossa.So number ten here is gonna mean the attachment of infraspinatus.Three is the supraspinous fossa, so that's supraspinatus attachment.And then, on the deep surface of the scapula, this whole '16' area is subscapularis attachment.So while we're looking at the deep surface, there's this great big '19.'It goes all along here.That's serratus anterior's attachment, deep on the vertebral border.And then rhomboids attach anterior and medial on the scapula.So, here's serratus anterior attaching on the deep surface, and here is rhomboids, attaching on the anterior medial border.And of course, le-- levator scapulae also attaches there, but more superiorly.Where are those rhomboids, that we just talked about?Anterior-posterior view, superficial-deep?Can that help you?Okay.And here we go.You found the rhomboids, just where you were expecting them to be, attaching on that vertebral border, right there.And here is levator scapulae.Superior angle.All labeled for you.Function.What functions are shared by pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi?Think about where they are.Pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi.Just knowing in general where they are, can you deduce some function?Okay, let's see what you think.You think 'adduction.'Yes.Little less confidence about medial rotation, but in fact, that's shared.They're both spinning.I'm gonna back up here.Try not to get dizzy while I do this.Pectoralis major pulls the lateral lip anteriorly, spins medial.Latissimus dorsi pulls medial lip posteriorly, spins the humorous medially.So they share that, again.Oof!Strobing.Okay.And adduction-- uh, so yes, and yes.And, if I had specified 'sternal portion of pectoralis major,' would there be another function they shared?The sternal portion of pectoralis major also extends, like latissimus dorsi.So.Serratus anterior.Boxer's muscle.You need it when you push against something to stabilize that scapula.Serratus anterior pulls vertebral border of the scapula anteriorly, protraction of the scapula.Important when you want to generate force against an object; when you push it, or when you punch.And so, why is that there?That's a little slide that had a mind of its own, and jumped out of order, but it's a little bit of a random thought.We'll come back to serratus anterior again.Okay.Click on the part of trapezius that upward-rotates the scapula.So we're just in a little bit of a 'function section' here.There's trapezius; you can see trapezius.Which part of it upper rotates the scapula?And here we go.Hooray, everyone wins.All parts of the trapezius upward rotate.This is not the trapezius over here.This is deep to the trapezius.This is a deeper dissection.Trapezius has been removed to expose rhomboids, and splenius capitis, and levator scapula over here, on the right side.So, wrong.Everybody's right.Every part of trapezius contributes to upward rotation.Pulling upward laterally, pulling downward medially.Rotates the scapula in the same way.Oh, here we go.We have to think about relationships between muscles here.Is this a superficial or deep dissection?Can you find any bony landmarks?Is there a-- did I open up the slide?I did.Okay, we are still working.Okay.So, let's-- we've got one answer that a number of people like.I-- this is all gonna be written down on the next slide, so let's just talk through this.Uh, here, this looks like a posterior view of the upper body.Here is a spine of the scapula, so this must be posterior deltoid attaching to that spine of the scapula.And also, we have trapezius.This here is great, big trapezius.So now that we know that this is the spine of the scapula, I'm gonna guess that 13 is infraspinatus.And right next to infraspinatus is a small muscle, and here's a little muscle that's been designated with the number '12.'That's teres minor.Next to teres miner is muscle 11.That's teres major.And then we can see 10 is the big latissimus dorsi.And then that helps give us confidence that 11 might be teres major because I know latissimus dorsi and teres major travel together o-- to that medial lip of the inner tubercular groove.So what is seven?Seven is a posterior muscle of the upper arm, and the only one we've looked at there is triceps.Triceps long head.Now, consider for a moment, how the heck is triceps long head gonna find its way to the scapula with all of this other muscle traffic in the area?Well, look what it does.It reaches through, in between teres minor and teres major, to grab on to the infraglenoid tubercle.So it braids itself; it weaves itself between the two teres muscle.And this is very distinctive about triceps brachii long head; minor, major.It goes over the major and under the minor, to get to the scapula.So here is everything labeled for you.And, there's a woman doing something in an art museum.So, what-- I saw this picture, I thought, 'Whoa, look at her... fill in the blank.'That, ladies and gentlemen, is maybe the best teres major you're gonna see all day.Big muscle, headed from the scapula to the humerus, posterior.That's teres major.See why I was so excited?You don't see those every day.And here it is, in this view.Number three is teres major.And probably, what is muscle two?Okay.Now that I've told you what muscle three is, and therefore, you can easily deduce what muscle number one is.And then you can say what muscle number two is.You can see muscle number two passing between teres major and teres minor.So muscle number two must be triceps long head.Good.Labeled for you.So this is a very distinct-- this is like sternocleidomastoid.When you just see this, you know exactly where you are.Teres-- uh, excuse me.Triceps major long head gets you oriented with regards to those teres muscles.'Terra firma.'What functions are shared by muscles one and two?Two and three?Okay.So I'll come back to one and two after you tell me what two and three do.Okay, still working.Okay, so let's talk.Muscle two-- muscle one is infraspinatus.Right next to infraspinatus is teres minor.These are two muscles of the rotator cuff group, and when they pull on the humerus-- posterior humerus, greater tubercle here, which way's that gonna spin?Lateral rotation.Two: teres minor.Three: teres major.Which way does teres major rotate the glenohumeral joint, together with latissimus dorsi?So the teres muscles are antagonistic with regards to rotation.They're going to pull the humerus towards the body.Adduct.Of course, there's not a whole lot of moment arm here.And they're both going to extend a little bit.Find an abductor, please.We've neglected abduction.Okay.And you have found middle deltoid and supraspinatus.Good.I can't click around a corner like that; I can't draw a box-- an answer box-- around that, but if you clicked 'supraspinatus,' you're good.If you clicked 'middle deltoid,' you're good.And there it's written for you.Oh, and look at everything all labeled all pretty for you.And an announcement, about the function shared by teres major and latissimus dorsi.And here's-- I'm tossing-- we have just a few more slides to go.We're gonna finish this today.Here is some-- ooh!Sorry.Where are we?Is this anterior or posterior?Does that look like rectus abdominis to you?No, so this must be posterior.So what is this white-- whitish-yellow stuff here?This is the thoracolumbar fascia.So, this is very superficial, posterolateral.Here's the ileum.So three, there, is gonna be the great big latissimus dorsi.Five, external oblique, posterolateral view.And then a little peek, number six, at internal oblique.And we are so finished.So if you have any questions for me, let me know.Otherwise, I will see you on Monday and will--