Good morning, everyone.Welcome to the last week in March.It was a big weekend.The sun was out.You started studying for exam three in this course.And, women's rowing won on Saturday morning.Am I forgetting anything?Oh yeah, men's basketball is going to the Final Four.Woohoo!Okay.So, with that, let's get started with the last group of muscles that we're gonna cover in this course.Light at the end of the tunnel.Here we go.So we're moving distally to look at muscles of the knee, ankle, and tootsies.The toes.So what have we gotta do?Oh, we've got a group here.'Pes anserinus.'Supposedly the name of the groups is supposed to help you understand what they do.Uh-oh, doesn't look so helpful this time around, although 'pes anserinus' is Latin for 'goose's foot.'So we'll be looking for a goose's foot, because everyone knows what a goose's foot looks like, right?Okay.Think 'web.'Alrighty.And then we'll be looking at function of all those muscles, and we'll have a cross-section or two to look at.So, here is a lower extremity, and here are the movements that we're going to need to control.At the knee, easy.We need flexors and extensors.At the ankle, we need dorsiflexors and plantar flexors.We're going to look for invertors and evertors around the subtalar joint.And then we're going to look for toe flexors and extensors.And happily, this is organized much like the upper extremity control of the wrist and hand.What we're missing here is anything like supination or pronation, although I guess the closest relative would be the invertors and evertors there.So let's dive in and get this job done.So we'll start in the easiest place, with the quadriceps femoris.And already, you're noticing that word 'quadriceps,' and distinguishing it in your mind from 'quadratus femoris,' one of the six deep lateral rotators.We have been introduced to one muscle of the quadriceps femoris, rectus-- rectus femoris.But now we're going to learn about the other three muscles in that group that cross just to the knee joint, that don't reach as proximal to function at the hip as does rectus femoris.The vasti muscles-- their name tells you a lot about them.'Vast,' in terms of cross-sectional area.And it looks like we've got an easy job.One on the medial side, one on the lateral side, and one in the middle.And here's a lower extremity.And what can we see here?Where might rectus femoris be?This looks like rectus femoris.Any idea what this might be?A superficial muscle that's somewhat diagonal in this image?Sartorius.Okay.So we have-- we're gonna find out now about some of this other musculature.So, rectus femoris, of course, we've seen before.And just to point out that it's gonna contribute to extension at the knee, passing anteriorly to the knee joint.And unlike other joints that we have talked about so far, anterior passage means it's an extensor, not a flexor, at the knee.And so the vasti muscles are deep to rectus femoris.Let's look at what we have here.Here is the tendon of rectus femoris, cut, and the tendon of its origin, cut, here on anterior inferior iliac spine.What are these two tendons that are cut here attaching to, anterior-superior?Sartorius and TFL.So we've cut away those superficial muscles, rectus femoris, and now we can see the three vasti muscles, deep.Medialis, lateralis, and vastus intermedius in between.So where do you think these muscles-- that is, the vasti muscles, have origin?And please be sure that you can discriminate which of these surfaces is anterior, and which is posterior.For example, the one on the left is smooth.The one on the right is bumpy.In fact, it's a-- bumpy in a particular way.A line, so here's the linea aspera.And the lesser trochanter, which we see well in a posterior view.Alrighty.So what do you think?You are thinking proximal and anterior.You're thinking posterior, and guess what?Everybody's right.So the origin of these vasti muscles is also vast: anterior femur wrapping around medially and laterally on the femur, all the way to the posterior aspect, depending on which vastus muscle you are.So let's look at these details now.Vastus medialis, medial lip of linea aspera, intertro-- -trochanteric line.So you were right, thinking proximal and posterior for this muscle.And it inserts, of course, with the other quadriceps into the tibial tuberosity via the patellar ligament.And it has one job in life, and that is to extend the knee.Vastus intermedius takes origin from that anterior surface-- that smooth surface of the anterior femur, and picks up some lateral origin as well, and inserts in the same place.Vastus lateralis takes origin from the lateral and posterior aspect of the femur.So all that surface area of the femur, basically, except for the linea aspera, is origin of these vasti muscles.So we can get a lot of cross-section.And if you notice, these are pennated muscles.So they're short, angled fibers, which, as you know, is going to contribute to a large physiological cross-sectional area.Okay.So let's watch his quadriceps in action.He's going to extend the knee here for us.Thank you very much.Good job, Anatomy Man.Now, we're also gonna see him use his quadriceps to extend the knee in a load-bearing position, and guess what?There they go again, extending the knee and getting him up stairs.So which one of these is medial?Are you getting familiar with how you might tell the medial side from the lateral side?And here you might need some knowledge of muscle relationship.Sin-- so we can't see a lot of bony anatomy here.We can see some, but not all.Some of you have been writing about or finding bursas in your reading; these little blue fluid-filled sacs that are keeping these tendons from rubbing against each other and damaging each other.Nice little packaging material, here.Alrighty.So, what do you th-- oh!You found medial, mostly.Good.Now, how do you know this is medial?Well, I see-- I spy with my little eyes, the head of the fibula here.Okay.So that's the clue to the bony anatomy that this is lateral.Also, I see two tendons over here.Iliotibial band.And I see three tendons over here.And the three tendons over here are going to be very significant, shortly.This is the pes anserinus group.Okay.So, there's everything labeled for you, with a little bit more of a zoomed-out view.Quadriceps femoris shortens when the knee extends.That's because those muscles are extensors.So we're going to see that group turn green.Here we go.When the knee extends, the quadriceps femoris are shortening.Here's the lateralis, and here's rectus femoris reaching up, although it's cut off here to the anterior inferior iliac spine.Okay, which of the following quadriceps muscles functions at the hip joint?And here we go.Excellent work.This is the only one of the four muscles that crosses the hip joint.Therefore, it's the only one that can flex the hip.Alright.So, what have we done here?I've done some cataloguing.So, the knee flexor muscles-- we've talked about the extensors, and it's an easy, easy, easy job, because there's only one group that contributes to knee extension, and that's the quadriceps femoris group.But, in terms of flexion, we've already learned about a number of muscles that are posterior, it turns out to the knee joint, and so are going to be flexors.We've already talked about biceps femoris long head, semimembranosus, and semitendinosus.Those are the hamstrings.The hamstrings group are knee flexors.Sartorius and gracilis pass just posterior to the knee, so they're officially flexors of the knee.So we already know those five muscles.We have two muscles that are uniarticular knee flexors.That means the only thing they do-- the only joint they cross, the only joint they function at, is the knee.So we'll, uh, we'll be talking about those shortly.And then, there are two flexors that we're gonna talk about that function at the knee and also at the ankle.So there's quite a bit of activity there, posterior to the knee.So here are knee flexors.Where are we?Here's a posterior view.I can see the sacrum and the ischial-- the ischia.Here are hamstrings; medial hamstrings, lateral hamstrings.So biceps femoris long head, and semitendinosus and -membranosus.Here's another muscle arising from the inferior pubis.This is an adductor.What's the name of this muscle?You'll know this by Wednesday for sure.Gracilis, passing just posterior to the knee and contributing to flexion.These are muscles that we'll talk about later.So these muscles-- you don't know adductors-- I mean, you don't know the gastrocnemius yet.Here it is.So in fact, it is gracilis, which is the answer to that question.So we see that there're some complex muscle designs there, um, flexing the knee.So the three knee flexors that also function at the hip are called the 'pes anserinus,' or the 'goose foot' group.And those are: sartorius, gracilis, and semi-- semitendinosus.And where do they all insert?And you're looking at it.Proximal medial tibia.And they're turning green with knee flexion.They are knee flexors.And you can-- this video is really good for understanding how these muscles are knee flexes.You can really see that moment arm.Okay, so let's find the pes anserinus group in this-- on this image.Okay.Excellent.So.This is something to recognize.The three tendons on the medial side of the knee, and the two on the lateral side.Biceps femoris long head, iliotibial band, fibula, lateral tibia.And then these three tendons of the pes anserinus.Sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus.And labeled for you there.So now, let's meet these two muscles that are our uniarticular knee flexors: biceps femoris short head and popliteus.The short head arises from the linea aspera posteriorly, and inserts together with the long head of biceps femoris, on the head of the fibula.So this is kind of like the triceps long head, and lateral and medial head, right?Both heads flex the knee; only the long head extends the hip.Hmm.I-- oopsie, oopsie.So let's-- let's take a moment, and see if you can tell what muscle one, two, and three are, now that you see a deeper dissection that is exposing biceps femoris short head.Number three: long head.Biceps femoris long head.So these are paired to insert together on the head of the fibula.And, one and two are the medial hamstrings.The one with the most 'tendinous-y' tendon is -tendinosus, number two.And we also recognize that because it matches what we feel when we palpate our posterior medial knee, when you can really feel that tendon of semitendinosus.And then deep to it, the semimembranosus.I'm returning to this image that we saw last time, because you didn't know many of these muscles when we looked at this last time.So here's rectus femoris, anterior.Now you can see the vasti muscles and their relationship to the femur.Medial side, lateral side, and vastus intermedius, deep to that.Sartorius and gracilis, we knew last time, as well as semimembranosus and semitendinosus.Labeled here is biceps femoris long head, but we had not yet met biceps femoris short head.So this gives you an indicator of how proximal or distal this section is.And you can see now that it's fairly distal, because it's picking up the biceps femoris short head.So then that-- if you knew that, it would have helped you recognize which adductor this is.Last time, we talked about that mystery muscle as being adductor magnus, based largely on the size of the muscle.But now we're seeing it's also quite distal.So that's another clue that it's adductor magnus.Alrighty.Popliteus.Popliteus relates to the posterior knee in the same way that anconeus relates to the posterior elbow.That is, origin: lateral; insertion: medial.What's different about those two muscles, of course, is that anconeus was an extensor of the elbow.But posterior at the knee means 'flexor.'What?Medial rotation of the tibia?What?So you do know that in real life, there's a little bit of rotary motion that's allowed at the knee joint.We have these cruciate ligaments to prevent that.But, there's-- we haven't-- we've pretended that the knee is uniaxial in this course, and only flexes and extends.But when you are standing, and you engage your quadriceps muscles and force your knees into their most extended or hyperextended position, what happened is that there's a little bit of rotation between the tibia and femur.It's called the 'screwing-home' movement.The femurs rotate a bit medially with respect to the tibia, in that locked knee, that hyperextended knee, with engaged quadriceps.Try this at home.So popliteus unlocks the hyperextended knee.And in that locked position, the femurs rotate medially with respect to the tibias, so this muscle medially rotates the tibias, with respect to the femur-- unlocks the knee.That's what's behind this statement right here.At the elbow, there's too much bony integrity in that joint to have any rotation, but we know that things are different at the knee.Alright, so here's a picture.He's going to actually fake this movement by doing hip rotation, but we'll forgive him.It's a really bad demo, so that's interesting that I would show it to you.But, uh, maybe it gives you the idea of the direction of the unlocking the knee.That okay, a new muscle.Gastrocnemius.Famous because you can see it so easily on a posterior view of someone's lower leg.You see two heads: a medial head and a lateral head.This muscle takes origin on the distal femur, and skips the tibia and fibula completely, and inserts on the calcaneus.So it's like the hamstrings-- with the exception of biceps femoris short head-- in that it skips over the bone and runs from femur to calcaneus.The lateral head arises from the lateral condyle of the femur, and the medial head arises from the medial condyle of the femur.Inserts via the calcaneal tendon, formerly known as 'Achilles tendon,' and is a knee flexor and powerful ankle plantar flexor.If you want to jump up to make a basket, you will be engaging this muscle powerfully.Alrighty.So here is gastrocnemius.We can see its tendon of insertion here on the calcaneus.And let's see it acting synergistically with the hamstrings in knee flexion.They're both turning green as the knee flexes.And we can see the short head of biceps in that view as well.And now, I believe, we're going to see Ôgastroc-Ô do its job of flexing the knee.There we go.And let's talk about a buddy to gastrocnemius.This is a muscle called 'plantaris.'It's a little cutie pie of a muscle.Very small muscle belly, very long tendon.If you're a quadruped, it's a big muscle, but in us biped humans, it has devolved to this very small, little mouse-looking thing, posterior to the knee.You can see how short those fibers are.And its very, very long tendon.So it is a buddy to lateral gastrocnemius.Arises laterally.Three muscles, laterally.Lateral gastrocnemius, plantaris, and what else?Popliteus.All taking origin laterally there, on the distal femur.And it has its very own tendon of insertion.It does not join gastrocnemius to be part of that Achilles tendon.Okay.So what knee flexors are shown here?Something from ischial tuberosity to medial tibia.Which hamstring is that?Well, it's either semimembranosus or semitendinosus.Which one does it look like to you?Do you see a cord-like tendon here?No.This is semimembranosus.And a little one, and an angle-y little one.So what have we got here?This is lateral to medial.This is like anconeus; this is popliteus.And this little guy is lateral to a long, long, long tendon.This is plantaris.So we've got that big gastrocnemius dissected out.We're looking deep at the posterior knee here, so we can see popliteus and plantaris doing their thing, which is shortening, turning green, with knee flexion.Okay.Muscles at the ankle are needed to control plantar flexion and dorsiflexion.So we have accounted for extensors of the knee.Short answer: quadriceps.We've accounted for flexors of the knee.Just about every muscle we've ever looked at, with regards to the lower extremity so far, is a flexor of the knee.Many, many, many.Hamstrings, a couple of uniarticulars, and even some muscles that function at the ankle.So now, we are going to talk about controlling plantar flexion and dorsiflexion.We already have seen one of these muscles: gastrocnemius.And what function is shared by muscles posterior to the ankle?Well, what shortens-- when something back here shortens, you get plantar flexion.I'm answering my own question.And so here, let's see if we can figure out what muscles that plantar flex also might do at the toes.Alrighty.Here we go.You think that they're toe flexors, and you are absolutely right.How do the toe flexors get there?So think about when you walk, and you hit the ground with your heel.Do you think that you're crunching?Are you stepping on your toe extensors?Are they passing under your calcaneus to get to your toes and flex them?How are they getting there?We will find out shortly.Okay.So, here's the cross-section that we're gonna be spending a lot of time with.This is a cross-section through the calf muscles.And, let's get oriented.You see two bones there.You see a big bone and a little bone.So, you know which bones those are.The big one's the tibia; the little one's the fibula.And how do you tell medial from laterally-- lateral on this image?When you feel your anterior calf, is there meat covering your medial tibia?No!So it must be-- oops.I can't reach.This must be anterior and medial right here.This corresponds to what you feel, when you feel your shin.So, uh, we're going to start talking, since we've got a posterior-- uh, we're talking posterior right now.Uh, we will start posterior and superficial.The muscles of the lower leg are divided, literally, into compartments.These compartments are not fictional.They're actually bounded by tough connective tissue fascia.So-- and-- and actually that can be a problem when we start talking about these anterior muscles.So we're gonna start by talking about posterior superficial compartment, which houses gastrocnemius, we already know; the tendon of plantaris, which we already know; and a new muscle, the soleus.So if we're looking at this cross-section-- do I have a quiz question?No, I don't.What-- what might these be?This looks like two heads of the same muscle, gastrocnemius.This looks like the medial side, the tibia side, and the fibular or lateral side.Tendon of plantaris there.So soleus has a lot of cross-section, and we'll be talking about that.So, superficial view.When you look at someone's lower leg, you see the gastrocnemius, medial and lateral heads.And, if you look really careful-- carefully, this is what you'll see.The medial head extends a little bit more distally, interestingly.It's asymmetrical.Look for that.That's advanced, superficial anatomy.And then, deep to those heads of gastrocnemius, you see plantaris, with its long, skinny tendon, and soleus, deep to that.Okay.So here's soleus.And it arises from the posterior bones of the lower leg, posterior tibia and fibula, and it is a compatriot to gastrocnemius in that it inserts together with gastrocnemius in the Achilles-- or the calcaneal tendon.Powerful plantar flexor.Contrary to how the muscle is shown here, soleus is the most pennated muscle.It has the largest pennation angle of any muscle in the body, so that enables it to have a very large cross-sectional area.Why do you think you might need that?We spend a lot of time standing up, and gravity either wants us to fall into dorsiflexion, or fall posteriorly in a plantar flexion direction.But gravity tends to pull down anteriorly on our body, so we need something that's gonna be making plantar flexor torque all day long as we're standing.And that's what soleus is designed for.Slow-twitch fibers, torque all day long.To keep us standing.Okay, so here-- oops.Here comes a dissection.There's nothing on this slide, just a reminder that the video is coming.There's plantaris.Now we'll look at a picture of soleus.Pronounced 'soul-ee-us' by some people.Either is fine.And we can see the tendon of plantaris and soleus there, turning green with plantar flexion, pulling upward on that calcaneus.And, his demo.Look at that medial head of gastrocnemius extending more distally, and soleus shaping this lower leg.You can catch a bit of soleus here, deep to gastrocnemius.They're both turning green, shortening with plantar flexion, and he'll demo his plantar flexion here.And you can see soleus and gastrocnemius easily in many people.Okay.There are three muscles in the deep posterior compartment.So we've handled the easy superficial ones.Let's go deep.Finally, this is where we find the long toe flexors.Flexor digitorum longus, long flexor of the toes, and the long flexor of something called the 'hallucis.'What do you suppose that is?Big toe.So thumb: pollicis.Great toe: hallucis.And, a muscle that is posterior to the tibia.How convenient.So, let's-- what have we got going here?Posterior knee.Here's biceps femoris on the lateral side, long and short heads.Over here, we see the medial hamstring.Semitendinosus, semimembranosus.Cut away here is medial head of gastrocnemius.We've got three muscles laterally: lateral gastrocnemius, plantaris, and anconeus.Soleus has been dissected away, so we're looking very deep.Tibialis posterior, in between flexor digitorum longus and flexor hallucis longus.So, if you're thinking about this, you might wonder, 'Are these long flexors labeled incorrectly?Isn't my great toe on the medial side of my foot?Wouldn't the muscle that seems to be on the medial side be the flexor of my big toe?'Yeah, you'd think.But that's not correct.They actually switch.So the great toe flexor is more lateral.The flexor of all the other toes is more medial.Not what you would expect in tibialis posterior in between.Okay, so, what is the function of these deep posterior calf muscles at the ankle and subtalar joints?Well, we could guess what they're doing at the ankle joint, the talocrural joint.But what are they doing-- how do they function-- at the subtalar joint?So that depends on their relationship to the axis of the subtalar joint, which we can think of as passing through the middle of the foot, anterior to posterior.So, these tendons, rather than passing deep to the calcaneus here, they take a shortcut, posterior to the medial malleolus.And that has a functional consequence at the subtalar joint.And you have decided that functional consequence is inversion.They pass medial to the axis of the subtalar joint, so when they shorten, they invert the subtalar joint.Details.Tibialis posterior.Wouldn't the world be good if tibialis anterior had an origin on the tibia?Well, it does, but it also has origin on the fibula.Picks up origin from both of them.And, this is ugly.What a list of tarsals.And metatarsals.So that's precisely what I want you to remember about this muscle, is that it inserts all over the place.On the plantar surface, a bunch of tarsals, and it even picks up some attachment on bases of the metatarsals.Spread all over.Scattershot.And it's posterior to talocrural, so it plantar flexes.It's medial to the subtalar axis, so it is an invertor.Let's look a flexor digitorum longus.We talked about this before.How that muscle, contrary to what would make sense, has origin on the tibia rather than the fibula.Passes posterior to the medial malleolus, and inserts-- now, this is important-- on the-- it reaches all the way to the distal phalanges on the plantar surface.So it's going to flex all of the joints.All the interphalangeal joints of the toes.Assists with ankle plantar flexion because it's posterior to the axis.And because it is medial to the subtalar axis, it's going to invert.And flexor hallucis longus arises from this, um, distal-- uh, from the fibula, and inserts on the distal phalanx of the big toe on the plantar surface.So all of these muscles-- the tendons of these muscles.I guess I did that.I don't know why.I get-- anyway.Moving on.So here, we're looking at the medial malleolus, and we've seen these retinacula before.We saw them at the wrist.And we've got one here on the medial side, keeping the tendons tidy on the medial aspect.And we'll see these long toe flexors passing posterior to the medial malleolus, functioning to flex the toes.And you also see some muscles here that we're not going to discuss.These are intrinsic muscles.The short toe flexors.Okay, so we've done superficial posterior compartment.We've done deep posterior compartment.Now we're going to move laterally, and talk about two muscles that have origin, it looks like, on the fibula.And these are called peroneus longus and brevis.A long one and a short one.Um, sometimes these are called 'fibularis longus' and 'fibularis brev-- brevis.'But still in the clinic, you often heard them referred to by their earlier names, 'peroneus,' so that's what we're using here.So what do you think muscles in this lateral compartment might function as, in terms of the ankle and the subtalar joint?We don't know much about them yet, except where they're probably going to have origin.Okay.So, these are likely going to be what?Plantar flexors or dorsal flexors.Everybody seems to think they're evertors, and I totally agree, but we don't know: are they going to pass posterior to the lateral malleolus, or anterior to it?And we don't know yet.So either of these are very fair guesses, and I'm glad to see that you understand that they're evertors.It turns out they pass posterior to the lateral malleolus, so they also are plantar flexors.So, peroneus longus, as we might have guessed, takes origin from the lateral fibula; thus, lateral compartment.What?Base of the first metatarsal over there on the medial side and medial cuneiform?Whoa!So this muscle passes posterior to the lateral malleolus, which was a guess a moment ago.And then runs from medial to-- or, excuse me.From lateral to medial on this plantar surface of the foot to insert over here on the medial aspect.So what does that mean?When it shortens, it pulls the medial aspect of the foot towards the lateral side of the fibula, and that's eversion.In a most peculiar way.Because it is posterior to the lateral malleolus, it's going to assist with plantar flexion.Not a very big moment arm, but it's in the direction of plantar flexion.Peroneus brevis has origin more distally on the lateral femur, so it's shorter.It's also shorter because it does the logical thing.It inserts on the lateral side of the foot.In fact, it inserts on the base of the fifth metatarsal, which you can see there in the image.So that one-- that muscle makes sense if you were gonna design an evertor.This is probably-- this probably would have been your first choice.And it also assists with ankle plantar flexion.So let's take a look at these two now.I think I--There's a retinaculum that ties down this tendon, like we saw in the medial side.We can see his peroneus longus tendon there.And there's that retinaculum.Oops.Okay, I have an anatomical party trick.My retinaculum here is really loose, and I can actually pop my peroneus longus tendon around my lateral malleolus.Can anybody in here do that?Does anybody else have that situation?If you wanna see it, come to my office hours.Okay.So what does that mean?It means if-- if I'm depending on that muscle for plantar flexion, I can turn it into something that might actually assist with dorsiflexion.This is not good for stability of the ankle.It's not a recommended thing to do, but it just slides right around that lateral malleolus.Okay, there are four muscles in the anterior compartment.I see three.Hmm.So, one is kind of hidden there.So what do we think these anterior muscles are gonna do?We haven't seen any dorsiflexion yet.So, tibialis interior.That makes sense.And the extensors of the toes.That makes sense.And here we see a third peroneus muscle.Peroneus tertius takes origin from the fibula like the other two peroneus muscles do, but this one has a more anterior-ward path, and inserts on the dorsal surface of the base of the fifth metatarsal.Its cousin, peroneus brevis, attached on the plantar surface of the base of the fifth metatarsal.And it pulled downward on the plantar surface.This one is going to be pulling upward on the dorsal surface.So this peroneus muscle is a dorsiflexor, unlike the other two.But, all of the peroneus muscles evert.Because they're all lateral to that subtalar axis.Tibialis anterior; this muscle you know, because you can feel it very easily on yourself.Arises from the lateral tibia anteriorly, and has some origin on the interosseous membrane.And it inserts medially on the medial cuneiform and base of the first metatarsal, just like another muscle we have talked about today.Peroneus longus.Peroneus longus comes from lateral and posterior, and inserts medially on the foot.Tibialis anterior comes from anterior, and inserts medially.So they insert in the same location but have completely opposite functions.Peroneus longus plantar flexes and everts; tibialis anterior dorsiflexes and inverts.Kind of interesting.Make sure you do those actions at home, and locate your tibialis anterior tendon.It's very easy to find.Right there.Extensor digitorum longus.This one makes more sense.It's taking origin more lateral, and it inserts on the distal phalanges of toes two through five.So it's anterior to the ankle.It's gonna contribute to dorsiflexion.It's slightly lateral to the subtalar joint, so it assists with eversion, and it extends and hyperextends toes two through five.We'll see it here.Or rather, here.These tendons are also very easy to palpate on yourself.Extensor hallucis longus arises laterally, inserts medially at the distal phalanx of the big toe, and it-- because it happens to pass very near the axis of rotation for the subtalar, it is an assigned a role in inversion or eversion.And we will see this muscle hyperextend his big toe.There he goes.And, let's see what we've got here.We'll see tibialis anterior turning green with dorsiflexion.And here we see the extensor of the toes, also turning green with extension-- with dorsiflexion.This is the last muscle in Movement Science 230 that you need to learn.Extensor digitorum brevis.And here, I am violating my rules.I'm talking about an intrinsic muscle.This muscle does not function at the ankle joint because it takes origin on a tarsal.And it assists extensor digitorum longus in extending and hyperextending the toes.And the reason I'm pointing this out to you is because you can see it really easily on yourself.And you can see it demonstrated in the lab as well.So it's an intrinsic muscle because it arises and inserts, just in the foot.And it joins with the tendon of extensor digitorum longus.Let's look at this muscle.And this is where you're going to look on yourself in the next time you take your socks off.You're gonna look at the dorsal lateral surface of your foot.And that ball of muscle that pops up on your arch.Let's not.Okay.So, we'll look at the extensor digitorum brevis acting synergistically with the longus.So look for that muscle there.You can palpate it really easily.So our ankle plantar flexors.This is what we've done today.We've seen ankle plantar flexors that also function at the knee posteriorly.Knee flexors: gastrocnemius and plantaris.We found all the muscles that pass posterior to the ankle joint: soleus and tibialis posterior, in addition to the long toe flexors.And we discovered that these peroneus muscles that we find laterally also pass posterior to the ankle joint and our ankle plantar flexors.The dorsiflexors pass anterior to the ankle.There are no dorsiflexors that also function at the knee.We found tibialis anterior and the long toe flexors.And the surprise: peroneus tertius.Another evertor, but this time, a peroneus muscle that dorsiflexes the foot.So what is not shown here?So we have gastrocnemius, and we have peroneus longus.And we can see tibialis anterior, and the toe extensors.Category-- cate-- uh, categorizing muscles that assist in inversion-- that generate inversion torque-- because they pass medial to the subtalar axis, are both of the tibialis muscles, anterior and posterior.And then, the flexors.So, the tibialis posterior, digitorum longus, and flexor hallucis longus are sometimes called-- sometimes called, 'Tom, Dick, and Harry.'The three tendons that pass posterior to the medial malleolus.And tibialis anterior is a dorsiflexor, but on the medial side, so it's also in-- contributing to inversion.On the lateral side, we have all three peroneus muscles.And extensor digitorum longus has a bit of a moment arm, lateral to the subtalar axis, so it can also assist with eversion.And we can see that here.Here is tibialis posterior, passing posterior to the medial malleolus.And the peroneus muscles, passing posterior to the, um, lateral malleolus.So we did it!That's it.No more new muscles in this course.On Wednesday, we will have an exam.And then, on Monday, we'll take these up again and review these muscles.The exam: 54 questions; multiple choice; only cross-sections for identification.Any questions for me about that exam?If you have some, I'll answer them in email, or... stop by my office, if I'm there, which would be today.You can ask questions.Alrighty.So, good luck with your studying, and I'll see you on Wednesday.