G'morning, everyone.If you are like me, you had a really hard time getting out of bed this morning.The alarm went off three times before I figured out what that sound was.It was one of those mornings for me.One reason for that is because I stayed up late grading, and I'm happy to say that the literature reviews, in particular, are getting so good.I'm really impressed by how the quality of your work is really improving, generally.Do you have any questions or comments for me about the-- the assignments?How all that's going?Aside from the big question, 'When are you going to get your grades on the assignments you've turned in?'So my goal is by the time you get your score on the third exam, everything will be graded up until that point, so you'll have a really good idea of what you might need to do or not do in the last month of the course, in order to finish it up.Okay.Anything besides my own questions for myself?Okay, so here we go.Let's look at the hip muscles again.Do you like the hip muscles?They are easier, I think.Here's a question.We are looking at a bare bones picture of a coxal bone.So, sort out what's anterior, what's posterior.Is this the lateral-medial view?And look for three, four, and five.Three-- oh!Three, four, and five are really clear.We're looking for the origin of some muscles at three, four, and five.Okay.Anybody want more time?Alrighty.Still working.Ready?Okay.Some debate, whether it's the ‘13’ answer or the ‘11’ answer.So let's go back and look.Now probably, you have figured out that these are the gluteal muscles.And again, I warn you not to be deceived by the size of the area of attachment.Because if so, you're gonna think, 'Well, three must be gluteus maximus because it's the biggest muscle, and it's got this great big origin.'But in fact, the key to sorting out the gluteal muscles is to remember who's posterior and who's anterior.And in fact, the smallest attachment site here belongs to the biggest of the muscles.So five is gluteus maximus.And then marching anteriorly, four would be the medius, and three would be the minimus.Oops!No answer there.Okay.So let me repeat.Five is the maximus, most posterior.Three is the minimus-- gluteus minimus, most anterior.And gluteus medius is in the middle, number four.Now, the other side of the hip joint.Here's the femur.We're looking for the insertion of a muscle here.Important to sort out is if we're looking at the anterior surface of the proximal femur, or the posterior surface.Which is a little bit difficult.You have to really know your femur to sort that one out.Okay.How are we doing?Alrighty.Here we go.So, let's see what you think.Again we've got a mixed-- a mixed sense of things.So first of all, let's go back to the fundamental question: is this anterior or posterior femur?And the answer is: it's anterior.Because I don't see two things.I don't see the linea aspera, which is our big posterior femur landmark.And also, the lesser trochanter is just peeking out here.And the lesser trochanter, we can really see best from a posterior view.So those are two indicators that tell us that this is the anterior surface.And in fact, the gluteal muscle that has the most anterior origin also has the most anterior insertion.So gluteus minimus actually inserts on the anterior aspect of the femur.Kind of a surprise.Alrighty.Our first meat picture of the day.Here is a section through the hip joint.And your first job here is to figure out what are we looking at-- is this a frontal section, a sagittal section?And you can use the bony anatomy to help you with that.And then once you sort that out, what do you think muscles five and six-- what their function might be, given this particular view?Can you see where they're-- where they might be inserting on that femur, and does that give you a clue as to who they might be?You can see some nice subcutaneous adibose-- adipose tissue, right over that hip.In my late-night grading last night, I read a case study of someone whose grandmother had fallen and had a fracture of the proximal femur.And although it wasn't described how she impacted the ground, while we're here, we can talk about the-- the landing that puts an individual most at risk for fracturing their proximal femur.And that's impacting right here.Because if you notice, there's no muscle tissue that is overlying this greater trochanter.And if that individual is thin, you can see that the impact-- there wouldn't be much to absorb that impact load.So falling laterally right onto your greater trochanter is particularly dangerous.Puts you at risk for fracturing the proximal femur.Okay.So, let us look at what you have to say about this.And you think that they're abductors.I agree, totally.We're looking at some gluteal muscles there that might function to pull this greater trochanter towards the ileum.That would be abduction.Alrighty.Push comes to shove: where might you find gluteus medius in this muscle image?Look at all that nice trabecular bone in there.It's helping to strengthen the neck of the femur; that nice, thick articular cartilage.Oops.Okay.Which one is gluteus medius?And here, you might have think about what we looked at last time, in-- gluteus minimus is deep to the medius.That's the clue in sorting this one out.So this is gluteus medius, this is gluteus minimus.Okay.So let's talk about gluteus medius.We've got gluteus medius here, as shown in an obligate biped.Us, over on the right.Humans who walk upright, and a chip who walks mostly in a quadrupedal fashion-- can stand up and take steps on two legs, but mostly prefers a quadrupedal stance.So let's look at the difference in size of gluteus maximus versus gluteus medius in-- in these two species.So for us, we know gluteus maximus is much larger than the medius, and the hip extensive torque is gluteus maximus' job.The medius has a different job.But given the orientation of the pelvis, you can see that gluteus medius is an important hip extensor in the chimp.It's gonna pull that, um, femur into extension.And the gluteus maximus is smaller.Is that a big deal?No, it's just a na-- a fact to get us on the way to answer this question.So when Lucy and the australo-- australopithecine hominid was found in the '70s, the question arose, 'How big was the head of Lucy's babies?'And we talked about that.And considering the size of the-- the obstetrical demands on Lucy's pelvis.But now we're gonna think about Lucy's pelvis as giving evidence whether the australopithecines were obligate biped walkers.So, here's some biomechanics for us to consider.The blue triangle here is the hip joint location, and this red arrow is showing what the job of gluteus medius is, in us humans.Gluteus medius is pulling the pelvis towards the femur in a way to keep it level when we're standing on one leg.Gravity wants to pull downward on the pelvis, when we're standing on one leg during walking.And so gluteus medius tugs on that ileum to level out the pelvis.So our pelvis doesn't drop when we're standing on one leg in walking.Bodyweight is tugging downward, trying to adduct the hip joint.Gluteus medius pulls on the pelvis to try to abduct it, to counteract gravity.And that same thing is happening in Lucy.So we can look at the moment arm, actually.Lucy had a bigger moment arm than we do, in terms of amplifying the effect of that gluteus medius muscle force.So, taking the next step then, if we look at the stresses in the proximal femur as a result of body weight and muscle force, we can see a couple of things.Now, you can't see that too well here, but because of these forces due to gravity and ground reaction force, they're acting to compress this femur-- to bend it in such a way that this inferior aspect gets compressed.So that it's trying to bend the femur, so there's stretching up here, and compression inferiorly.When gluteus medius acts, it's-- it pushes the head of the femur into the acetabulum.So the entire neck of the femur is getting compression stress from this muscle force.So when you add these two together, you get an extra dose of compression stress on this inferior aspect, and a minimization of the load on the superior aspect of the neck of the femur, because the tension counteracts the compression.So the big load here is on this inferior aspect of the neck.So, we can look at the density and the thickness of the cortical bone in the neck of the femur as a result of gluteus medius activity, during by bipedal loading, to get a clue as to what might be going on.Let's start with us.It turns out the inferior aspect of the neck of our femurs are really thick, because of this characteristic loading of being upright walkers and thinner, more superiorly.If you look at the chimp, there's a very distributio-- very different distribution in the thickness of cortical bone in the neck of the femur.Lucy looked like us.So this was evidence to suggest that Lucy was an upright walker.Why does that matter?It matters just to give you a clue as to what the functional implications are of this gluteus medius force during upright walking.So this kind of an 'FYI' situation, but it turns out that muscles really load bones.We think that all the forces are 'gravity,' and 'contact forces,' but the fact that muscles are contracting and pulling on bones can really load them.And, in response to that, there's a very characteristic pattern of cortical bone.So I'm just gonna back up a couple slides here, and show you this picture.And what do we see here?Thick, cortical bone inferiorly, and much thinner cortical bone thickness, superiorly.Okay.It's a-- just a hint about the biomechanics that might be coming if you're a Movement Science student, and you're gonna be taking Movement Science 330 and-- and Biomechanics of Human Movement.This is the kind of thing you might be discussing.And for you biomedical engineers, this is kind of second nature to your understanding of the world.Okay.So.Leaving that behind, here we've got some views of the proximal femur.And I had said earlier that you could tell anterior from posterior when you're viewing the femur proximally, because you can see this structure.Nine, here, is the linea aspera, which we couldn't see in that figure more-- uh, earlier.And, uh, the prominent view of the lesser trochanter here.So, these were the features that were missing earlier when we were looking at the femur.So number one here, we-- in these different views, this, I would say, is an anterolateral view of the femur.And you can see number one there, on this lateral aspect of the greater trochanter.Here's a peek from the posterior, and then in this superior view, you can see 'one.'So 'one' here is attachment of gluteus medius, to finish the story.Okay.Moving on.Muscle three.Muscle three.What is muscle three?Can you come with it?Here, there is plenty o' evidence of what muscle three might be, given the bony anatomy that is so obvious in this image.And I think we're going to have an unambiguous answer here.Ah-- iliacus.Good job.We're looking at the iliac fossa.Here's the ileum.And the muscle that has origin on that iliac fossa is iliacus.Once in a while, things are easy.So number six, then, would be the origin of iliacus.Really?I'm gonna make you write that down?Really?Okay, but you can go ahead and do that.So.What view of the coxal bone is this?This is a medial view, right?We're not looking at the acetabulum, so six is really found on that iliac fossa on this medial view.And that's where iliacus-- you're typing 'iliacus' here.And here we go.Iliacus.Do we have any mood indicators in here today?Nope, not gluteus medius.That-- what's wrong with gluteus minimus?Why would that not be gluteus minimus?Gluteal muscles attach on the lateral aspect of the pelvis.Psoas major.That can't be correct, 'cause psoas major originates lumbar vertebra bodies.Okay.And, whooh.Now we have another view.Where are we?What are muscles three and four, and then when you know that, what is their insertion?Where are we?What view is this?Do you see anything there skeletally that might tell you whether this is anterior or posterior?I'm going with anterior, because these look like lumbar vertebrae bodies.This looks like anterior superior iliac spine.This looks like body of the pubis.So three and four are _____, and then, where do they insert?And-- and they insert-- not the greater trochanter, but the lesser trochanter.This is iliacus-- iliopsoas, and we're looking for the insertion.So that's gonna be the femur, and the-- they grab onto the-- you can't see it here, but the lesser trochanter.Psoas major, iliacus joining forces, uh, to insert on the lesser trochanter.And here you can find that insertion.Somewhere on this proximal femur.Look at that fovea capitis right there.Number 12, round ligament.And you can see the opening in the bone there, for the blood vessel to nourish the head of the femur.Okay.So.I'm looking for a whole bunch of dots on number seven, the lesser trochanter.Nailed it.Okay.Ili-- uh, iliopsoas attaches on the lesser trochanter, right there.Okay.So, speaking of the anterior superior iliac spine, we're looking for that point to be the origin of a couple of muscles.And what might those muscles be?These two muscles.Anterior iliac spine.Two muscles.One heads east, one heads west.Medial and lateral.How did I know this was anterior superior iliac spine?Because I recognized the pubis as being anterior.Greater sciatic notch, posterior.Ischium, posterior.Okay.So what have you decided?You're going with: good job.Sartorius.Tensor fasciae latae.'Lah-tay.'And, here is an image that I received from a student who had finished 230, and that summer was traveling in Germany, and excitedly sent me this picture because of what they observed looking at it.So, what was it that that student was excited about observing in this piece of art?Is he looking at his cell phone?Probably not.Okay, um, so let's see what you've got.You are... high.Sartorius is one of them.And TFL.There we go.There we go.Sartorius and tensor fasciae latae.'Lay-tee.'Or whatever.TFL.Both of those muscles, you just told me, originated here on the anterior superior ileum.One, sartorius, is superficial and heads medially.TFL is superficial and heads laterally.Somebody suggested 'rectus femoris.'This is rectus femoris, heading straight down the anterior thigh, superficially.What else can we observe?Perhaps this individual needs to do a few more sit-ups.We're not seeing much definition there, in that abdominal wall musculature.Anything we can identify here that might be on that exam next week?You can see pectoralis major.Artfully done-- perhaps not entirely anatomically correct-- it looks like the pectoralis major is originating on the ribs, but we know it actually originates here, on the sternal portion.This is closer to the clavicular portion of pectoralis major.We can see latissimus dorsi forming the two borders of the axilla, or the armpit.We can see biceps brachii.We can see a bit of coracobrachialis.And this might be triceps long head.Over here, we can see deltoid, done up pretty darn well.Anterior middle portions of deltoid.Any idea what this muscle might be?Arising from lateral humerus and inserting on the-- looks like on the radial side of the forearm.What might that be?Brachioradialis.We've got a sternocleidomastoid.Okay.I guess that's about all we can really do.Uh, origin of rectus femoris.Any clue where that muscle attaches to this bone?We just saw where rectus femoris-- where its belly was found, superficially on the anterior thigh.Where does it have origin on the coxal bone?Alrighty.Here we go.Anterior inferior iliac spine.Ba-boom, right there.Good job.Identify the muscle.It must be muscle seven that we're identifying.Let's go-- here's muscle seven.Can you say whether this is anterior or posterior?Any bony landmarks?Once you're oriented, then you're ready to start thinking about muscles.Don't jump the gun.Do all the steps that are necessary.So you don't identify 10 as a hamstring, 'cause a-- we're not lookin' posterior.Still working?Few more seconds.Okay.Yes, TFL.Anterior superior iliac spine.We've been talking a lot this morning about these two muscles that are attaching in that-- originating, in that area.Here's the pubis, so this muscle number 10 must be heading medially-- that would be sartorius.And also what's missing here is the tendon of insertion of TFL.The IT band has been cut away.So muscles three, four, and five.Three is the muscle you just identified.Three is tensor fasciae latae.Four is sar-- excuse me.Sartorius, heading medially.And five is rectus femoris, having origin inferior to TFL and sartorius.And what do all of these muscles do?This black dot, as a hint, is where the axis of rotation would pierce the hip joint, moving medial, in a medial-lateral orientation.These muscles are all anterior to that hip joint axis, which tells us that all of these muscles are flexors.And there's everything labeled for you.Okay.Ah.Rotation.Always the most difficult function to sort out.Which of these muscles is a medial rotator?And notice, I'm-- we're-- haven't even identified them.So you're just looking at attachments, and trying to sort out what might be a rotator here.The axis of rotation: where is that head of the femur in the acetabulum?Somewhere in this vicinity.And the axis of rotation is gonna be superior to inferior.Okay.So let's see what you got.Do you have any idea?Yep, it's either one or four.I agree totally.It's either one or four.And-- because one is TFL.Four is sartorius.We know they have some rotation function.So what does sartorius do?Flex, abduct, and laterally rotate.This is lateral rotation of the femur.So it's not four.It's number one.TFL is the medial rotator, because you know sartorius is not.Because you've done this move and figured out that when you sit cross-legged, it is lateral rotation.Because I know you all have done that.Okay.So, what we're looking at here is the pelvis of a 230 student who has a condition called 'hip dysplasia.'And, um, this is what it took to repair it.So hip dysplasia-- there's some instability, lack of coverage of the femoral head in the acetabulum.So in order to repair this condition, a pelvic osteotomy is performed.That means that the coxal bone is cut, and the fragments are displaced and rotated in order to build this acetabular covering, and reorient it.And you can see how massive and invasive that surgery is.If we look in a lateral view here, you can see a bit of a lesion here, where-- kind of a horizontal line, in where that pelvis, uh, where-- how the fragments were reoriented.And these long screws holding these pieces in place.Alright?This a young, healthy individual.You can-- uh, just with this issue.Okay, so let's consider what muscles you-- oops.What muscles you might have studied that might be affected in terms of their origin or insertion as a result of this procedure?And cutting through the ileum and moving stuff a-- moving the bone fragments around.Which muscles do you think might get affected by that surgery?Okay.So what do you think might be attached?Iliopsoas, gluteus medius, TFL, all the gluteus medius, iliacus, pectineus, sartorius.There's a whole host of muscles that might be affected here.Well, let's look at how a biomechanist might have approached this surgery.So this was a study done, um, in the '90s, where the PhD student at the time asked the question, 'Do different surgical approaches to this osteotomy-- why are-- why do sometimes-- why does the patient sometimes have a limp afterwards?Why are they sometimes successful?Might it be related to the actual surgical parameters?'So in the simulation study, they characterized what options the surgeon might have.So you can see the osteotomy up there, or where the cut is made.So the surgeon can make a choice of the angle of this cut.How much the distal, or inferior fragment, is displaced medially, and then how much that inferior fragment is rotated.That's what the surgeon has to decide when putting the screws in to fix it into a new place.So, knowing that this particular study focused on hip abductor torque, since we know that hip-- the hip abductor muscles are so important in maintaining the pelvis, um, during walking.And here is the original-- or, a healthy hip, and here is a post-surgery hip in terms of the ability of the abductor muscles to generate torque.So with this set of parameters, looks like you'd probably have a good outcome.With this set of surgical parameters, maybe not such a good outcome, in terms of the effect of these parameters on hip muscle strength.So what would we notice here?What's most different?Well, what's most different is this angle, um, of-- horizontal cut, or more angled cut.So, it looks like the more horizontal cut is most effective.And here is how that-- um, those two techniques-- the best outcome technique and the worst outcome technique in the simulation study resulted.So it looks like the moment arm of gluteus medius isn't it changed much with either surgical technique.And that's probably what the surgeons were trying to do, is to spare the moment arm.But now let's look at what happens to force.That second surgical technique changes where the optimal length of-- of gluteus medius is, so that the muscle is too short during standing to generate adequate force.And so, even though the moment-- moment arm is fine, the muscle is disadvantaged in terms of how long it is, right at the joint angle where you need to produce torque.It makes it shorter, by-- you know, an extra centimeter and a half, and so that really compromises the ability of gluteus medius to make abductor torque.Okay.So, anyway.If you're a-- if you're planning to be an orthopedic surgeon, this is the kind of thing you're gonna have to be thinking about, if you-- because you will be asked to do surgeries to repair hip dysplasia.Young, otherwise healthy individuals who have this structural problem with the pelvis that needs to be fixed.Okay.Is that gonna be on the test?No, but it sure is interesting, is it not?Okay.So.Let's go back to this picture of this frontal plane section through the hip joint, and think about what muscles 12 and 13 might be.We're gonna leave the abductors and the flexors alone, and we're gonna start looking at some other muscles now.Okay.Hints at where these two muscles might attach, but you can't really either their origin or insertion, so you really have to think about just the relationship.Where are these muscles with respect to this hip joint and other muscles?And, when you have done that, you are going to decide that the muscles in that area, being on the—hint, hint-- medial side of the hip joint, might, in fact, be adductors.Good work.Opposite side of the joint from the abductors.Lateral, medial.Here are the adductors.Okay.So, let's work on these adductors.Which one of them originates at 25?So, what is 25?What is that bony landmark?What bone is that?And it looks like there's one muscle attaching to it.And only one muscle.What might that be?And you have decided that it is the one and only pectineus.Yes, because this is the superior pubic ramus.And that is the home of only one of the adductor muscles.Twenty-five: that's pectineus.That's the easy one.So saying, where might pectineus be in this picture?Bony landmarks, anyone?Alrighty.Here we go.Superior pubic ramus.There's pectineus.Good.Alrighty.Name these muscles.I'm guessing you can find pectineus, but what are those other two?And if you don't know, you can ask the person next to you.Okay.Here we go.Uh, have I labeled them?No.So let's go back, and I will tell you.Number one is pectineus.Number three is gracilis, because-- lookie.Pubis, medial thigh.All the way down to the tibia.Number three is gracilis.And four-- exc-- four?Four?This is a two.Is the adductor.Okay.Any idea where adductor magnus might attach here, on the posterior distal femur?Changing the tune a little bit, to adductor magnus.Okay.And, of course, you have selected the adductor tubercle.Yes, excellent work.Now, maybe you were thinking, 'Is this the adductor tubercle, or is this the adductor tubercle?'And they don't look that different.So what could you have used as a clue?Where is this femur angling?It's angling laterally, right?The femur angles medially, distally.So you could have used that as a clue to figure out the side that's medial.Describe the function of this muscle at the hip.Well, what is that muscle?It's very big.Inserts on the linea aspera.It also inserts on the adductor tubercle, so we're likely talking about adductor magnus here.So what is it that adductor magnus does?And of course, there's one very easy answer, and then there's another answer that is a little bit more complicated.I mentioned before that this space, this hole, this hiatus, in the adductor magnus insertion, the adductor hiatus enabled the vessels to pass from anterior to posterior thigh.And you can see them drawn in to the image here of artery and vein, passing through that adductor hiatus.Okay, so you have all said 'adduction,' and-- ooh.And some have said 'flexion,' some have said 'extension,' some have said 'both'-- 'both.'So I actually would recommend this answer: adduction, flexion, and extension.Because depending on whether you're talking about the anterior-most fibers of adductor magnus that can assist with flexion; the posterior-most fibers assist with extension.So it's complicated in terms of its sagittal plane function.Unambiguous in its frontal plane function as an adductor.So, click on the insertion of muscles with 'adductor' in their name.Where are we?This is-- must be the femur.Is this anterior or posterior femur?We've got the great big-- the great, big, lesser trochanter looking at you.You've got the linea aspera looking at you.So this is gonna be the posterior femur.So where do the adductors insert with respect to the posterior femur?And here we go.Linear aspera, anywhere you like.Definitely not the lesser trochanter, and this-- this bar could have gone up higher.So, linea aspera.Well, that's the insertion of adductor longus.Where is its origin?Any clue where adductor magnus might attach to the coxal bone?If you can get a click on the correct bone, that would be great.It's still a week 'till you might know-- might need to know a little bit more than that.Okay.So, you have all clicked on the pubis, I hope.Many, many clicked on the pubis.Good work.And in fact, the longus has origin right here on the body.That's the detail.But if you're-- if you're thinkin' 'pubis,' good work.Okay.Which two muscles originate here?So we've found that this is adductor longus, right here.We just did that work.Previously, we've seen pectineus having origin here.So what muscles have origin now on the inferior pubic ramus?And it comes down to one of two of these.Okay.More people are waking up.Alright.So, here we go.And, which is it gonna be?This one, or this one?These are the most popular.And, could be this one too.Definitely not this one, 'cause we've talked about that.Okay.So, the second most popular answer gets it.It's a hard question, because we haven't really looked at this detail yet.But what do we know about adductor magnus that might steer us away from answer 'b'?Adductor magnus, partly, is an extensor, so it's gonna have origin very posterior on this coxal bone.It's actually gonna have origin all the way posterior to the ischium.And if we look here, neither of these two muscles reach all the way posterior to the ischium.Okay.Speaking of the ischium, where do you think the hamstrings actually attach on this coxal bone?The hammies are posterior, right?So I'm feeling a little bit like the parent who curses in front of the children, but then doesn't let the kids curse, when I say things like 'hammies.'If you ever said 'hammies' on your assignment, I'd say, 'That's not anatomical language!'Right?Um, so, 'hamstrings.'Okay.So where do they attach?Good work.I'm liking this, 'cause this is ischial tuberosity.How would you know that the hamstrings have a limited here?So this is-- if you clicked here, you're good.The actual answers up here-- that's very fine detail.Okay, so, let's talk about what that thing was that some of you clicked on that is ischial tuberosity but wasn't hamstrings.That is the origin of adductor magnus.Adductor magnus, uh, has a broad origin, inferior pubic ramus, ischium all the way to the issue tuberosity, okay?Hamstrings have a discreet-- that is, small-- area of origin on the ischial tuberosity.Okay, number of the day.Pi minus one?Two?Two?Pi minus one, and a whole bunch of digits to make it two.Okay.Alright.Ooh.Cross-section.What is this muscle?And it's the only muscle not labeled.This image was in one of the articles that one of you reviewed.And I saw this image, and I thought, 'Wow. I'm gonna grab that for lecture, 'cause that's really good.'Okay.So, you've come up with some answers, but let's talk about this.Everything's labeled beautifully here.So let's get oriented because it's labeled.I'm seeing rectus femoris, so this must be anterior, because we know rectus femoris is anterior-medial-superficial.Now, what's medial-lateral here?Well, I see vastus lateralis.That's a clue it's lateral.But also sartorius is medial, and vastus medialis is medial.Uh, we haven't gotten to those muscles yet.I apologize.Rectus femoris.Here's sartorius.So that's medial and superficial, although we do have quite a bit of adipose tissue here.Gracilis is medial, as we might expect the adductors to be.Here are our hamstrings: semimembranosus, semitendinosus, biceps femoris long head.There's the short head, which we haven't talked about.So what is this great big, medial, 'close-to-the-hamstrings' muscle?And you've decided that it is... adductor magnus!Good job.Okay.We don't really know which adductor it might be, because we don't really know how distal we are in this cross-section of the thigh yet.So that's kind of advanced.Um, but anyway, an adductor is a good guess for this muscle right here.Look at this beautiful dissection.What are we looking at here?This is a sagittal section.We can see, uh, L5 here.The body of L5, that nice trabecular boned, thick inter-- uh, -vertebral disc.Here's the sacrum, the sacral promontory.Here's some posterior musculature.We're looking at the medial aspect of the pelvis once it's been cleaned out.What do you suppose this muscle might be, right here?Does that look like where you might expect to find the obturator foramen?So this is gonna be one of the obturator muscles.This is likely some of the six deep lateral rotators.What muscle is this, having origin on the anterior aspect of a lumbar vertebra body?That's psoas, right?Iliacus.Gluteus maximus.Here's the pubis.So that gets us down to: where might adductor magnus be?This is really hard.Yeah.One of these two.I totally agree.And it's all the way posteriorly, here.This would have fit the bill.Pubis reaching posterior towards the a-- to the ischium.Can't really tell from what you know already; this-- it turns out this is the answer.If you answer this, you're definitely thinking in the right direction.Okay?This is really hard.This will never be on exam.But it's giving you practice thinking about what these muscles might be.So what is this muscle, if it's not adductor magnus?What might it be?What were those two muscles that we saw attaching on the inferior pubic ramus?Adductor brevis, and gracilis.Of those two, what might it be?I don't know, it looks like it's gonna be long-fibered, heading towards the tibia, so is actually gracilis here.Very difficult question.What is this muscle?I would proceed by deduction.What is it not?Okay.Here we go.Good.Good, good, good.Hamstrings.Here's lateral over here, because there's the IT band.I see gluteus medius heading laterally.So this is the lateral side of the knee, so I know that this muscle must be the lateral hamstring.There's biceps femoris long head.Here's semitendinosus, with its tendinous superficial insertion.And semimembranosus, deep to it.We just saw how-- how close proximity adductor magnus origin was with respect to the hamstrings.Now, the other option was gracilis, but we know that gracilis is long and inserts on the tibia, which you can kind of guess by looking at its path here.So good work.And there's everything labeled for you.What function do these muscles share?One and-- ooh.I think we're getting close to the end here.Gluteus maximus, hamstring.Which hamstring is this?Lateral side.There's an insertion on the head of the fibula, so that tells us this is biceps femoris, the lateral hamstring.Iliotibial band.These muscles are extensors.They are posterior to the axis of rotation in the sagittal plane at the hip.The iliotibial band, or iliotibial tract, that inserts on the lateral aspect of the proximal tibia.What two muscles insert here?Do I have a question, or is this rhetorical?It is not rhetorical.What two muscles insert via the iliotibial band?You can look at them here, or you can remember.Okay.And ooh, you're still working.Two muscles.One, two.And you have typed in, of course, 'gluteus maximus' and 'TFL.'Good work.Where do those six deep lateral rotators insert?Any clue?Proximal-distal?Medial-lateral?Okay.Right there.I'm gonna take the box off for a moment.So we know that the gluteal muscles, medius and minimus, are attaching on the lateral aspect of the greater trochanter.The six deep lateral rotators are inserting on the medial aspect of the greater trochanter.I'm happy with greater trochanter, proximal femur.Okay.And here they are.So what a-- what are we looking at here?I'm gonna help you with this, 'cause it's not obvious.Gluteus maximus has been dissected away, as-- as well as gluteus medius, and the minimus.So we're looking at the six deep lateral rotators here.This is a deep dissection of the posterior hip joint.Here are our six deep lateral rotators.And can you identify them in order here?What's two?What's eight?The superior and inferior.Okay.So, while you're thinking, let's look at this big white thing here.This is the sciatic nerve.It's really large.Some of you have come across the sciatic nerve in your reading.Has anybody here ever gotten a shot in the butt?Well, if you have, the shot nurse is avoiding getting near the sciatic nerve.And in fact, is injecting whatever the substance is intramuscularly to avoid, in the gluteal muscles, avoiding contact with the sciatic nerve here.So this is a bundling of nerve roots from the lumbar and sacral region that are going to innervate muscles in the lower extremity.Okay.So, where are we now with your ordering of muscles?Oh-- eight seems to be a big answer, and it was the correct one, although it wasn't the most popular one.So let's identify them.Oh, it's-- are they identified here?No.Uh, I'm gonna identify them for you.Two is piriformis.Eight is quadratus femoris.The two bordering muscles.Three and four are the gemelli.Three is superior gemellus; four is inferior gemellus.In between the two gemellus muscles is six, obturator internus, and then we see the obturator externus tendon at seven.We saw this schematically last time.Here, we're actually looking at a dissection showing these muscles.Alright.Uh, gluteus minimus.Can we find gluteus minimus in this dissection?It's also quite deep.Here are five of the six deep lateral rotators that you just identified.Here's gluteus maximus, cut and reflected back.So where is gluteus minimus in this mess o' muscles?Hamstrings have been cut away here.Okay, we won't get distracted.Uh, this is piriformis.This pear-shaped muscle is piriformis.Here's gluteus minimus.Deep to the medius, and most anterior.That was a hard question.And can you find quadratus femoris in this picture?Now that you know where piriformis is, it might help you get oriented with regards to identifying quadratus femoris-- not quadriceps femoris, but quadratus femoris.The most inferior of the sixty deep lateral rotators.Alrighty.So you have done really good work today.It's been hard, working on those adductors in particular; the origins of those muscles.But you did really good work this morning.So this is the end of the material that's gonna be on exam three.So on Monday, I'll start working with knee and ankle muscles, but they won't be on the exam until the last day of class.Right?So you can just work with these muscles over the weekend every day.Please work with them every day.Please, there's no such thing as cramming if you really wanna learn anatomy.And I'll see you in office hours.I'll see you in my email queue.Or I'll see you in an appointment between now and Monday.Thank you.