What a week we had last week!Pi Day!St. Patrick's Day!We got-- finally, students in here actually have letter grades.And really good basketball, right?So, good week last week.Let's move on and look at what's coming.So there're more-- more articles-- er, more assignments coming in.Me and my grading team, you've kept us busy.Coming up next week is the exam on muscles.We'll finish the last of the muscles that will be on that exam this week, and then we head into the home stretch.Any questions about where we are, or where we are going?Nope, not yet.So let's do hip muscles.We are moving on down to the lower extremity.You're gonna be so happy with the hip muscles, because they're so easy compared with the upper extremities muscles.They make sense.There is no strangeness with regards to rotating, medially or laterally, that shoulder, that glenohumeral joint.Or all of the details of the forearm muscles.So let's dive in, and get this job done.So, hip joint.Three degrees of freedom: flexion-extension ab- and adduction, internal and external rotation, medial-lateral rotation.And, so we have a number of functions we need to learn to control.And it looks like we've got one muscle group.But look at the name of that muscle group.Six deep lateral rotators.So, if you belong to that group, you know the function, and you know where they are located.Deep.So, let's do this job.Muscles are needed to flex-extend: one degree of freedom.Ab- and adduct: another degree of freedom.And medially and laterally rotate the hip.This's a triaxial joint at the hip, so we are gonna study these muscles in four ways.We'll look at an anterior group and a posterior group.And you can guess right now what the function of those muscles will be.Anterior flexion, posterior extension, adductors, and the butt.The gluteal region.So, let's look at that.So, what muscle function is shared by all muscles in the anterior group?And I believe I just helped you with that one.And here we go.We have flexors anteriorly.Excellent work.And let's meet those muscles now.Only four of them to look at.Sartorius, tensor fasciae latae, rectus femoris, and iliopsoas.Whooh, what do we make of that?Sartorius: dunno.Tensor fasciae latae tenses the fascia of the leg.Rectus femoris, straight muscle of the femur, and iliopsoas.Well, there's something friendly.We already have met that muscle.And here they are, all turning green.Can you find iliopsoas?Something attaching to the vertebrae of the lumbar region.Alrighty.So our anterior muscles are turning green when they shorten, when the joint flexes.Okay, so let's meet the first one, sartorius.Sartorius attent-- attaches anterior-superior iliac spine.You can feel those landmarks quite easily.Takes origin there, and inserts not on the femur of all, but reaches all the way down to grab on to the proximal medial tibia.And what are its functions?I will demonstrate its functions right now.When you sit in 'tailor's position,' that's what sartorius does.Sartorius, sartorial splendor.Dressing well.Associate this with how they used to sit and sew, before there were machines.So when you sit in this cross-legged position, you are flexed, abducted, and laterally rotated.So that's sartorius.It does all of those things.And let's hear about it now.Or step on it now.I'm gonna turn the volume down because of the blast we got earlier.Okay, so I am going to point out the next muscle.Here's sartorius.And now we're gonna talk about this muscle.And what do you observe here?An origin near sartorius.But this muscle heads west.It heads medi-- uh, excuse me-- laterally, where sartorius takes a medial course.So you can anticipate maybe what the function of this muscle would be.It's anterior.It's lateral.But its lateral-going fibers are going to affect rotation of, uh, the hip joint differently than sartorius.Hold that thought.And we'll see sartorius.Where is it?Anterior-superior iliac spine, medial-proximal tibia.There's sartorius, crossing diagonally acro-- and superficially across the thigh, and shortening with flexion.Here we'll see sartorius shortening with abduction of the hip joint.Here's frontal plane.And you can see that as the hip joint abducts, sartorius is turning green.It is shortening.It's pulling that medial tibia in a direction of abduction.And now we'll look at sartorius, shortening with lateral rotation, pulling that proximal tibia anteriorly.Proximal medial tibia anteriorly, which is the motion of lateral flexion at the hip joint.Alright, so we'll see our anatomy man demo this movement.And there's his sartorius tendon there, and he's showing us the movement.Okay.Here is that muscle that I pointed out on the cadaver dissection.Tensor fasciae latae, or 'lay--tee'; you might pronounce it that way as well.So here-- it's a little short muscle with a very long tendon.In fact, it's tendon of insertion is the iliotibial band from the ileum to the tibia.And on your lateral thigh, you can feel that band.Some of you actually might have had physical therapy to stretch out that band.So here it is, taking origin near sartorius on the iliac crest, and then inserting on the, uh, via the IT band on the lateral tibia.So it shares flexion and abduction function with sartorius.But because of its lateral-going fire-- fibers, instead of medial di-- attachment, it's going to medially rotate.It'll pull the lateral aspect of the tibia anteriorly, which is medial rotation.And, let's see it.You can see that fascia, that flattened tendon of insertion.Here it is.Now, it's gonna shorten as it pulls that lateral tibia anteriorly.It turns green with medial rotation.Can you find Rudolph Nureyev's tensor fasciae la-- latae?'Lay-tee' muscle.While you're there, you can appreciate many of the muscles that we've learned before.You can see his serratus anterior, pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi.You can see his coracobrachialis.You can see his biceps brachii.External oblique.And an unbelievably prominent tensor fasciae latae.There it is.Good job.So, we'll watch some demonstrations of our fella here.Demonstrating medial rotation.And, now.What do we think about the functions of these two muscles?Sartorius, heading medially.Tensor fasciae latae, moving laterally.Alrighty.Here we go.Okay, so let's consider this.This word 'antagonist' means they have opposite functions.And we saw that both of these muscles are anterior-- anterior.So they're gonna share function of flexion.That's movement in the sagittal plane.They're both going to share function of abduction.So they're agonists, or rather-- and synergists in the frontal plane.So it's medial-lateral rotation where there are antagonists, and that's the transverse plane.Just to remember the beginning of the course.Alright, muscle three of four.Rectus femoris, straight muscle of the femur.And this one has attachment in the neighborhood of TFL and sartorius, anterior on the ileum.But this time, taking origin from the anterior-inferior iliac spine, all by itself.Takes origin there.And inserts on the tibial tuberosity as part of the quadriceps muscles.So we're gonna meet the rest of these muscles next week.This rectus femoris is the only one of the quadriceps muscles that crosses the hip joint, has function-- function at the hip joint.And that function is flexion, because it's anterior.Iliopsoas.We've learned the origin and insertion of this muscle previously when we talked about the hip.Psoas major, rather, we talked about.But now we're gonna add in another piece of this muscle, called the iliacus.So the iliacus has origin-- covers the iliac fossa.So it's taking origin from the anteromedial part of the ileum.So what do you think this muscle would be analogous to, or homol-- homologous to, at the scapula?What muscle has origin on the subscapular fossa?Subscapularis.So iliacus is kind of like the subscapularis.It's taking origin from that whole iliac fossa.The tendons of iliacus and psoas major combine, so they're indistinguishable at the lesser trochanter.So we put off talking about the function of psoas major because, really, what's important is how the iliopsoas muscle, combined now with iliacus, functions at the hip.Powerful hip flexor.And, so what are we looking at here?Here is psoas major, and it's combining with the iliacus, which we can't see here, to insert on the lesser trochanter.What is this muscle?Attaching on and anterior-inferior iliac spine, and reaching down to the tibial tuberosity.Here's a picture of rectus femoris.So let's look at these two muscles.These last two muscles in the group.And they're both turning green.That is shortening when the hip joint flexes.They have very different ways to flex the hip in terms of their attachments, but they're both hip flexors.Okay, looks like a quiz.Okay, before we leave this image, I have a couple of things I'd like to point out.This muscle.It seems to be related a lot to this muscle number one.Muscle number one-- or this part of muscle number one-- is psoas major.And we didn't talk about it, but there is a psoas minor, a little psoas muscle.And that's what we're seeing here.Anybody remember what this muscle is?Scalene muscle of the lumbar spine?Quadratus lumborum.Okay.See?Those trunk muscles aren't completely gone from your brains.Good job.Okay.So here's this, and everybody knows what's going on there, so there's everything labeled for you.That's it for muscles.Anterior sartorius, tensor fasciae latae, rectus femoris.And psoas-- or ilio-- iliopsoas.So now we can move medially and talk about muscles of the inner thigh, the medial thigh, the adductor group.Oh, and there's some work to do here.Five muscles.Three are politely named 'adductor,' so we know what their function is.So it looks like the job for those muscles is gonna figure out where they attach.And then two other ones: pectineus and gracilis; the thin, graceful one.Okay, so here's pectineus.It is the only one of these muscles that attaches on the superior pubic ramus.So every time you see a muscle on the superior pubic ramus, attaching there, you know it's pectineus.And it inserts on the femur, thus adducting the femur.Proximal medial femur, and actually posterior.So when that muscle shortens, it pulls that femur towards the pubis.That is adduction.Because these fibers pass the hip joint anteriorly, it also is a flexor.So let's find pectineus in this image.Superior pubic ramus.This must be pectineus.Here's the iliac fossa, filled with a muscle.This must be iliacus and psoas major.So we're gonna see these muscles acting synergistically in hip flexion.There we go.Turning green.We can see the flexion function of pectineus.Adductor brevis: the short one.Where does it have origin?Inferior ramus of the pubis, and a little bit of the body.And it's gonna insert: proximal linea aspera.So posterior femur, like the pectineus, but a little bit distal to the pectineus.So the linea aspera, that raised ridge of bone, is accepting insertion of a lot of muscles.Thus the bony ridge.And it shares the same functions of pectineus.That is, anterior-enough to flex, and shortening, when it pulls that femur towards the pubis.Adductor longus is longer than the brevis.Duh.And it takes origin from the pubic tubercle.So this—uh, the adductor that you associate with the body and tubercle of the pubis is adductor longus.Shares the same function as the other adductors: adduction and flexion.Notice that medial lip is not in red.That's too much detail.Linea aspera.Okay.Is enough to remember the insertion of this muscle.And that leaves us with-- uh, we're not gonna-- we're just gonna review those before we move on.So what have we got?Lumbar vertebrae.That must be psoas major.Iliac fossa.That must be iliacus, so here's the iliopsoas inserting on lesser trochanter.Here is rectus femoris.Its origin is obscured in this view by iliopsoas.But you can imagine that it's attaching to that anterior-inferior iliac spine.And we can see beautifully, for the first time here, the insertion on the tibial tuberosity via the patellar ligament and the patella, there.Okay.So we're gonna see these muscles.Oop, I didn't point out adductor longus.Oops.Here's adductor longus.Pubic tubercle to posterior medial femur on the linear aspera.All shortening with flexion.All right.Now we get to the magnus.The magnus is a big story.It attaches in two places.Definitive diagnosis for adductor magnus is its attachment on the adductor tubercle.I asked you to learn the landmark of adductor tubercle so you would be able to know where adductor magnus inserts.But, it also has a broad insertion on the linear aspera.It's a big muscle, and thus, 'magnus' in its name.It has a lot of cross-section.So look for its attachments in two places; its insertions in two places on the femur: the adductor tubercle and the linea aspera.Oh dear.So it has origin on the inferior ramus of the pubis.We kind of are-- expecting these adductors to be attaching to the pubis.But look, it has a broad origin.It reaches all the way back to the ischium.In fact, to the ischial tuberosity.So that means that fibers of adductor magnus converge on the femur from two directions.From the anterior-- from its, uh, inferior pubic ramus origin, and posteriorly from its ischial origin.So what that means is antagonistic function in the sagittal plane.Anterior fibers from the pubis help to flex the joint, as you would expect, as we've seen those other adductors do.But the posterior fibers are now posterior to the hip joint axis of rotation.So the posterior fibers are gonna assist with extension.We've seen this before with pectoralis major and other muscles.We've gotten comfortable with this complexity in terms of muscle function.But all of it hauls that femur medially towards the pelvis.So it comes by its adductor name, unambiguously.Okay, that's four.We've done pectineus, adductor brevis, longus, magnus.And number five is a little-- yet long-- muscle called 'gracilis.'Like abduct-- uh, the adductors, we're seeing a pubic ramus attachment, but it also has some origin on, uh, posteriorly, as far as the ischial ramus.Not as far, par-- posteriorly, as the magnus.It doesn't reach all the way posterior to the ischium.And it's an-- it's an adductor.Attaches proximal-medial tibia.Whoo!So this is the first one of these adductor muscles that doesn't insert on the femur.The one and only.It attaches on the proximal-medial tibia.Any clues what other muscle we've talked about today attaches proximal-medial tibia?Which one of these attacks-- attached proximal-medial tibia: sartorius or tensor fasciae latae?'Lay-tee.'Sartorius.So sartorius and gracilis are both attaching on this proximal medial tibia.Let's take a peek.Here's sartorius.The anterior fibers.Okay.Let's see if we can find these muscles now.Alright.When you've got your answers, let's consider-- we-- we identified some muscles up here last time.We've got a nice view of rectus femoris here.Can see the TFL, attaching lateral tibia.And sartorius, attaching medial tibia.So let's see what the job is here.How have we done on this job?Muscle one: pectineus adductor brevis.Pectineus abductor brevis.Pectineus-- this looks short, but it has origin on the superior pubic ramus.That is only pectineus.So the grand majority are correct here.Where is adductor brevis?This muscle is attaching to the body and tubercle of the pubis.So that's the longus.Where did the brevis go?Let's find the brevis.Alrighty.Let's back up.Looks like we've got a big vote for 'three' being the longus.So, what are we looking at here?Muscle one has been cut away so that we can look deep to it.Now, muscle one has an origin on the superior pubic ramus.So muscle one must be pectineus.So we've cut pectineus away so we can look deep.Deep to pectineus is this little short adductor.Finally, we've found adductor brevis.We couldn't see it before, because we had to dissect a little bit deeper.And three is adductor longus.With a distal insertion, compared to the brevis.Muscle number four.Let's look at muscle number four.It has two parts.Here's one part, attaching to the adductor tubercle, and another part attaching to the linea aspera.This is adductor magnus.Both of these parts belong to adductor magnus.And there's a hole here.This is not a tear, or a mistake.This is actually a-- a space called the 'adductor hiatus.''Hiatus' is a fancy word for space.And actually, blood vessels and nerves pass through that abductor hiatus to get from posterior femur to the anterior lower leg.Oops!Let me-- and there's everything labeled for you.Okay, which adductor does not insert on the femur?And there are the five muscles in the adductor group we just talked about.Only one of them does not actually attach to the femur.Alright.And here we go.And you are so alert.It is gracilis.You are correct.Ah, so what are we looking at here?We're looking at a posterior view.There's the ischial tuberosity.Here're the femoral condyles, and the posterior tibia with the head of the fibula nested up there, slightly posterior on the tibia.Here's sartorius.I'm-- I'm guessing that's sartorius, because it attaches on the proximal medial tibia.And it has a diagonal path across the thigh, anteriorly.So these must be adductor muscles arising from the pubis and inserting on the linea aspera here.There's pectineus.There's adductor brevis.There's adductor longus.So what was missing from that view?Uh, gracilis, and the magnus.Okay.So are you ready for the gluteal region?We all know about gluteus maximus.But looks like there's a medium-size and a baby-size gluteus muscle too; a medius and a minimus.And then, our first muscle group of the day: the six deep lateral rotators.And a lovely drawing, by Michelangelo, of the gluteal region.So here we go.Three gluteal muscles are named for their size.The maximus, the medius, and the minimus.While we are looking at them here, what else do we see?Very posterior, moving anteriorly, most anterior.In both origin and insertion.So these muscles, big to little, posterior to anterior.Looks like they're all having origin from the ileum.Gluteus maximus is picking up origin from the sacrum as well.The medius and the minimus clearly have insertion on the proximal femur, actually on the greater trochanter.But maximus seems to have a more complicated insertion.So let's look at these details.Here's gluteus maximus.Not only the ileum for its origin, but also posterior sacrum, and it has two sites of insertion.The proximal, uh, femur, as you might expect, at the gluteal tuberosity.But it also inserts, via the iliotibial band, with what other muscle?TFL.So TFL and gluteus maximus are converging to insert in the IT band to attach to the lateral tibia.Iliotibial band.So because of its posterior, uh, location with respect to the hip joint, gluteus maximus is a hip extensor.And, because it is lateral-going in its fibers here, it's a lateral rotator.It's gonna pull that tibia, and the femur attached to it, into lateral rotation.So let's look here at gluteus maximus.Okay.A little moment for a non sequitur.My first cadaver dissection was when I was an undergraduate.I was a dance major, but I took science classes because-- for my electives, because that was interesting to me.And one of the science classes I took was, unbelievably, a graduate physical anthropology class, where we went from the Boulder campus at the University of Colorado to the medical campus in Denver on Saturdays, and dissected a cadaver all day long.So there I was, with these graduate physical anthropology students, an undergraduate-- pretty much a 'know-nothing.'So, the first day that I was gonna dissect a cadaver, we arrived, and the doors-- was locked.So we had to sit in the hall with this agitation.Was I gonna faint, was I gonna faint.But fortunately, the first dissection day was the posterior; the back muscles and the gluteal region.So this was, uh, in-- must have been around St. Patrick's Day, that this was happening, because my family who lived in Denver went there after this first day of dissection.And my mother-- no, it wasn't St. Patrick's Day, 'cause it wasn't a brisket.It-- she served flank steak.After I had just spent all day looking at gluteus maximus.I could not eat meat for a long time after that.Anyway.So, to those of you who ignore the boundaries and pursue your education, more power to you.Anyway.Moving on.So here is what looks like flank steak, the gluteus maximus.Or beef brisket, for any of you who might have had a St. Patrick's Day meal of corned beef.Let's look at gluteus maximus shortening with hip extension.And ilial-sacrum origin.We're looking here at the gluteal tuberosity insertion.And there's gluteus maximus, shortening and turning green with extension.Okay.So we'll see him showing off his gluteus maximus.And here we go.Hip extension, gluteus maximus.And we'll look at his gluteus maximus again, this time demonstrating hip extension.You can do it that way, too.And I think that this movie now will be the lateral rotation function.Here we go.Gluteus maximus assisting with lateral rotation.Alright.So.Ooh, we're still not done seeing all of the things that gluteus maximus can do.You can also extend-- the hip extension can also be pulling the trunk upward into an erect standing position.Alright.Gluteus medius.Let's move anteriorly.Gluteus medius; lateral muscle.Lateral ileum, deep to the gluteus maximus.And-- because-- uh, and inserts proximally on the greater trochanter.What muscle is like this at the glenohumeral joint?Which rotator cuff muscle do you think might be most like gluteus medius?What's the abductor of the glenohumeral joint?Supraspinatus.Or the deltoid muscles here, okay?Abduction.Big abductor, famous abductor.Gluteus medius.And because it is-- it has fibers anterior to the hip joint, it can assist with flexion.It has posterior fibers posterior to hip joint, so it is split in its rotation and flexion-extension functions.So we're gonna think about this muscle as an abductor.And when we talk about walking, um, we're really gonna focus on the role of gluteus medius in normal gait, normal walking.So, let's look at the rotation functions here.Some of it wants to help gluteus maximus laterally rotate.Some of it wants to help these anterior muscles medially rotate, like tensor fasciae latae.But, unambiguously, gluteus medius is a abductor.There it goes.Gluteus medius abducting that hip joint.Minimus, marching onward and anteriorly.And if you notice, we're going also from superficial to deep.So we might have to dissect away the maximus and the medius to peek at the origin of gluteus minimus on the ileum.Inserts also on the greater trochanter.Abductor, and because of its an-- more anterior location, it's gonna be pulling the anterior part of the proximal femur anteriorly.That's medial rotation.Kinda like tensor fasciae latae.Okay.Looks like we got some work to do here, to sorting out these gluteal muscles.Can you make heads or tails of this image?Find your bony landmarks.Find superficial and deep.Find anterior and posterior.Okay.Wonderful job.So, let's look at the labeled version here.Very posterior view.There's the sacrum.I know I'm posterior.And this big piece of flank steak here is gluteus maximus.And there's the gluteal tuberosity insertion that we can see easily.Deep to that is-- deep and anterior, is gluteus medius.Here's its insertion, on the proximal femur.And then deep to that is-- or, excuse me.Here's its attachment, on the prox-- very most proximal part of the greater trochanter is gluteus medius.And deep to that is the gluteus minimus.Got some adductors here, and some abductors here.So what's this long muscle that abducts the hip joint?Hint: that's sartorius.Long ribbon of muscle from anterior-superior iliac spine to the medial tibia.Gluteus muscles, medius and minimus up here.And we've got some adductors.Which adductor attaches on superior pumic ramus?That's pectineus.The brevis and the longus.Okay.Ooh, that was that.Did I finish?Did we watch it, or did we just identify?Okay.Last group of muscles for the day.The six deep lateral rotators.So, what are their attachments?Somewhere on the pelvis, somewhere on the greater trochanter.Deep.Deep, deep, deep.We've dissected everything else away so we can peek at these muscles.So the job is learning their names.And you can see that we've got a couple of pairs of muscles that might make things easier.There's a piriformis, and a quadratus femoris.But there're two gemellus muscles, and two obturator muscles.So the obturator muscles have origin on the connective tissue that fills the obturator foramen.Gemelli twins.So we've got a superior and an inferior one.So here is a picture of the obturator muscle.Here's the obturator foramen, and the origin of this muscle.And you can see the internus tendon of insertion lies right between this pair of muscles: the superior and inferior gemellus muscle.Piriformis is pear-shaped, not shown here.But we'll see that in a moment.That's the most superior of these muscles.And quadratus femoris is a quadrilateral-shaped muscle of the femur.Notice: quadratus is not quadriceps.So if you're taking an exam, make sure you know that-- remember to look at that word very carefully.So you don't read 'quadriceps' when it actually says 'quadratus,' or vice versa.So where's the ex-- the obturator externus?We'll see that in another view.So here are some of the deep rotators.Notice that we can see through the obturator foramen.So the two obturator muscles are not included in this view.But we can see a pear-shaped piriformis, and we can see the two gemelli muscles superior and inferior, and this quadratus femoris.Turning green, hauling that greater trochanter posteriorly, which translates into lateral rotation of the hip joint.And what have you decided?Piriformis and quadratus femoris: most superior, and most inferior.This is a little bit of gluteus maximus.Let's find the other.Still working.Okay.The internus is inside the two gemelli muscles.So it's the obturator externus that is not shown there.Here is obturator externus.Where are we?We are looking at an anterior view of the pelvis.And, uh, the externus-- obturator externus-- is on the external side of the-- of the pelvis, interior.The internus is on the inside.So maybe from this image, you can get an idea of where these names came from.Oop.And you can see that obturator internus turning green with lateral rotation.Okay.So we've got a few more muscles to talk about here, and these are easy 'cause it's the hamstrings.So the hamstrings are three muscles.The two 'semi-' muscles and biceps femoris.The 'semi-' muscles are medial; biceps femoris is lateral.Looks like they have origin on the ischium.And insert distal in the leg.And you can see they're posterior, so they're shortening and turning green with extension.So, let's get these hamstrings catalogued.Semimembranosus arises from the ischial tuberosity and inserts on the proximal medial tibia.Extends the hip.The other medial hamstring is semitendinosus.Also attaches on the medial tibia, has origin on the ischial tuberosity, and extends the hip.Semimembranosus and semitendinosus.How do you tell those apart?Well, right now when you're sitting, if you reach and feel your posterior medial knee, you'll feel a tendon there, on the medial side.That's semitendinosus.And if you put your fingers-- excuse me-- on either side of the semitendinosus and palpate, press deeply, your fingers will be on semimembranosus.So two semitendinosus is more superficial, distally.And so you can really feel that tendon of semitendinosus.You can really feel that.There's a -membranosus.So let's meet the other hamstring muscle on the lateral side: biceps femoris.And what is distinctive about this one is that-- where it inserts.On the head of the fibula.Picks up some insertion on the tibia, too.But for sure, when you see a muscle inserting on the head of the fibula, you know that that's biceps femoris long head.So it's the lateral hamstring muscle.And let's hear him describe it to us.So, you heard him talk about another head of biceps.'Two heads.'So the long head attaches on the ischial tuberosity with the other hamstrings.But there's a short head that's not gonna function at the hip that we'll talk, about when we talk about knee muscles.So this is an-- analogous to triceps brachii.Having a long head that crossed the glenohumeral joint, and short heads that only functioned at the elbow.So biceps femoris is going to be like that.So, what can he show us about his hamstrings?And hamstrings are gonna extend the hip, as shown here.And let's see what we have.Can you tell your semitendinosus from your semimembranosus from your biceps femoris long head?This picture really matches what you feel when you palpate your posterior medial knee, 'cause you can really feel that tendon.And then you can see how the other muscle is more fleshy at that same level, and is deeper to this tendinous one.And have-- here's everything labeled for you.Ooh.Another question.What the heck is muscle one?What is that?We've got our hamstrings sorted out.But what is that?Gluteus maximus, iliotibial band here, gluteus medius.And that would be gracilis.Medial thigh, superficial, long muscle, inserting all the way distal onto the tibia.Lateral view here.Anterior muscles, posterior muscles.We've got both sets of hamstrings.What is this muscle?Anterior inferior iliac spine.That would have been rectus femoris.Okay, so what do these stars mean?These stars mean 'important.'More important than the unstarred muscles, in terms of creating flexor and extensor torque.And, what is this?Where am I?Oh, this is-- just these were just summary slides.So these are not important.I don't know why I've gone dark, but I do believe that's the end of the lecture.There's been no 'muscle of the day' today, so I'll just give everyone credit who answered all of the-- the questions.So that's it!And-- so if you have any questions for me, I can stick around and talk with you about it.Otherwise, you got an extra 20 minutes on your day.On Wednesday, we will just practice working with these same muscles again.