Good morning, everyone.Welcome back from spring break.I hope you had a wonderful time.And here we are, 8:40 in the morning, back in Angell Hall, and it's just a few more weeks until the end of the semester.We're-- get there.It's a sprint to the end.So I have several important announcements and, uh, there are quite a few people who aren't here.So if you know someone who is not here, who is in the class, you might ask them to pay attention to this part of the lecture on their review.First of all, I wanna draw your attention to a change I've made.I sent out an email about this, but I will offer the last exam on the last day of class.So that, if you're wondering, 'I have enough points to get an 'A'; do I have to take that fourth exam?'This will help you with your decision-making.The exams are required.But due to my naïveté with GradeCraft, I actually don't know how to enforce that.So I'm gonna hedge my bets to encourage you to actually take that last exam by offering it on the last day.Also, the reality of the situation is: this grading won't be done by the last day of class.And so, you can get that exam for-- in the bank, since you don't know what your grade might on those last exams.That's one change.Now, speaking of exams, um, the second exam, in general, did not go as well as the first exam.And that was very interesting to me.For the first time in my teaching of this course, the mean grade was a 73 percent.The mean grades are always low 'B-minuses.'So this caught my attention-- the lower exam score-- and I thought, 'Oh, is that a problem?'You know, because this-- this challenges me if I'm looking at the exam scores as a measure of if you're learning anatomy.And that's the whole point of GradeCraft, is to enable you to demonstrate your knowledge of anatomy in some way besides the exams.So, I'm wondering if you have any opinions about that.Given the amount of faces looking at screens right now, I'm thinking either you're not ready to talk-- ooh!Yeah.Yeah.Okay.Thank you.So what-- the comment that was just made, that-- was there are a whole bunch of exams, then.And how do you study for all of them?And that's-- that's true.Actually, in my heart of hearts, I really hate the fact that everything depends on the exams.I really hate that about teaching.Because you might be sick.You might have anoth-- a lot of other exams.You might not be a good test-taker, just in general.And I hate that stress that that puts on you as students.Like, 'If I don't do well on this exam, I might not get into physical therapy school.'You know, I hate that.So, that was one reason why I liked GradeCraft, was because it would give you some choice, and let you take control of your education.So, my final take on all of that was: that's fine.Maybe you've prioritized other exams.Maybe you are prioritizing your exam-- your other assignments instead of the exams.So I am open to that, in this big experiment of GradeCraft.What I ask you to think about is: do you feel like you're learning anatomy at the level you want to learn it?You know, the exams are information for you too.It might be that you realize, 'Wow.I actually didn't know that stuff.'That might be fine with you.Because if you cram for an exam, you're not gonna-- you don't remember it already.It's already gone, after spring break.Everything you crammed and learned is already gone.What's the point of that?I think that's a complete waste of time, learning like that.Cramming.It achieves the goal of getting you an exam score, but you don't remember any anatomy.So what is the point of that?Okay.So that's what I'm thinking about, as I'm thinking about GradeCraft and if I'll ever repeat this grand experiment again.One thing I can say is that as I'm reviewing the assignments, they're getting better.They're getting better.Which is just, like, so exciting to me.Because I'm seeing you use anatomical language better.I'm seeing how you're thinking differently on assignments as we're moving forward.So that's just wonderfully encouraging to me.So I'm actually-- I'll be very interested to hear what you think about all of this as the semester goes on.Thank you for your patience.As you notice, the assignment instructions are getting better.And, so, it's an experiment on both sides of the fence here, and we're doing our best to-- to keep up and-- and help you.Anything you might wanna share with group this morning?No amount of hand-waving, creative hand-waving, will help here?That's just fine.Okay.So I just wanted to share with you where I was, on all of this.Okay.Some of you still haven't used the Grade Predictor.That's a little scary to me.You'll hear from me in-person about that.Should we start?Shoulder muscles?Okay.We're ready.Where are shoulder muscles?Here they there.Okay, let's go learn some muscles that you might already know, unlike those back muscles.So, um, here we go.We're gonna learn about the shoulder.We're gonna learn about muscles that control both the shoulder girdle and the glenohumeral joint.One muscle group; only one muscle group.Hallelujah.The rotator cuff muscle group.And we'll learn about the function of these muscles and look at some cross-sections.So here we go.If you remember, when we looked at the back muscles, we started at the intermediate layer, because I said, 'Oh, the most superficial layer of back muscles control the shoulder girdle and the glenohumeral joint.'So now, we're going to attend to those muscles that are just under the skin, and learn what these muscles are.Okay.Look at that pose.That's quite interesting.The 'first kiss' pose, a little leg bent.Okay.Anyway, moving on.So we are going to need to find muscles that flex-extend, ab- and adduct, and medially and laterally rotate the glenohumeral joint.What is the function of the muscles found posterior to the glenohumeral joint?Thank you, Leonardo Da Vinci, for doing this beautiful drawing for us.So these muscles that are posterior-- what do you think their job might be?Knowing what you know about posterior muscles, of the what trunk?What do you think these might do?Posterior, posterior.And you have weighed in, of course, with the word 'extension.'Ooh.Mostly.Posterior muscles are extensors.Okay.When they shorten, they're gonna pull that humerus posteriorly, and extend the joint, just like the back muscles on the posterior aspect.But interestingly, we're gonna talk first about the anterior muscles.So, this is where we're gonna find the flexors.So, pec major.We'll talk about that muscle formally.And just deep to it is a little one, the pectoralis minor.Anterior portion of the deltoid, biceps brachii, and coracobrachialis.So you can already tell me where coracobrachialis attaches, just by its name.May I please point out something that is important to me?Biceps brachii.'Bi-': 'two.''-Ceps': 'cephalic,' 'head.''Two head.''Brachii': 'muscle of the upper arm.'What do you think you would call your left biceps brachii?Would you ever call it the 'bicep,' with no 's'?No.There's no such thing as a 'bicep.'It is always 'biceps.'Please always put the 's' on it.The singular is not 'bicep.'Okay?It has two heads.What is the function of pectoralis major in the sagittal plane?Here is the beautiful pectoralis major.And, here are your choices.What do you think that muscle does when its fibers shorten with respect to moving the humerus?Where-- how does the glenohumeral joint move when you shorten that muscle?Here's its insertion, on the humerus.And here is its origin.Very broad origin.If you shorten those fibers, which way does that bone move?And I'm going to guess that many of you have chosen 'flexion,' but this is actually the correct answer.It does both.And let's talk about why.So here is the clavicular attachment of pectoralis major.And the fibers that attach there.And the sternal attachment, or origin of pectoralis major, and the direction of fibers.And you can see blue and green are headed in different directions.So this muscle is antagonistic to itself.This is easier to imagine when you have the glenohumeral joint in a flexed position.The sternal portion is gonna pull it into extension.The clavicular portion is gonna pull it into flexion.So that's a surprise about pectoralis major.Both of these arrows are-- orient in such a direction that they're gonna pull the humerus towards the midline of the body, and they're synergistic with respect to adduction.Alright, so formally, pectoralis major has two origins, a sternal head, and a clavicular head.'Head' is just a way to talk about two portions of the muscle.And, it inserts on the humerus.And notice what a picky, picky detail I have put in red, to suggest to you that it's very important to me that you remember this picky, picky detail about pectoralis major.It reaches all the way across the intertubercular groove to grab onto the lateral lip.Interesting; you'd think it would just grab on to the closest stop there, which would be the medial, but nope.It reaches over to the lateral.So, pectoralis major, you may know as the anterior portion of your arm pit.Or, 'axilla,' in anatomical language.Sternal and clavicular heads of pectoralis major are antagonists in the sagittal plane.Part of it flexes, part of it extends, and so it's an antagonist to itself.All parts adduct.And now we see that all of pectoralis major is a medial rotator.Why is it a medial rotator?Because it takes that lateral lip and pulls it over medially.That is medial rotation.So let's watch and listen to a little video.And here we'll see pectoralis major in the frontal plane, so we'll see how both heads are turning green.That is, shortening, when the glenohumeral joint adducts.And, our anatomy guy.So-- there you can see the pectoralis major.And now we'll see pectoralis major doing the job of medial rotation, pulling that lateral lip medially, causing rotation of the glenohumeral joint.Okay.He does this a bunch of times.So you can watch more on your own if you'd like.And now we'll see that... there he goes.Medially rotating.Beautiful pectoralis major there.And now we'll see the two heads acting antagonistically.Notice that the two heads-- the sternal and clavicular heads-- are red and green at different times.Green is shortening.Why do I have this in here?Oh, okay.There's-- there're those nice clavicular-- the clavicular portion, bulging up for us to see that.And here, I imagine, we'll see the sternal portion bulging when he extends against resistance.And you can see a beautiful sternocleidomastoid while we're there.Okay.So, here's a question for you.We're moving away from pectoralis major.Uh, a, muscle that depresses the scapula-- you're doing a little design work here on your own.Designing the musculoskeletal system.Where would you set the origin for a muscle that's gonna depress the scapula?Just a reminder: there'll be lots of these drawings in the 'Draw It to Know It' section for the shoulder, so you can practice drawing muscles on your own.Okay, so let's see what you've got.No-- oh, uh-- was this a quiz?Did I-- were you able to click?Oh.Somebody hasn't come back from spring break.Uh, so what have you got?Everybody's right.Uh, there are some muscles that depress the scapula anteriorly, interestingly.And some posteriorly, as many of you have indicated.Okay, so here's pectoralis minor.Deep to pectoralis major.Cut and reflect back pectoralis major, and you can look at pectoralis minor.There it is, attaching to the ribs, and inserting on the coracoid process.Grabs onto that coracoid process and pulls downward immediately.That is a depressor of the clavicle, because the clavicle moves with the scapula.So it's attaching to the scapula and depressing the whole shoulder girdle.Protracts.It's gonna pull the scapula anteriorly.Pull the coracoid process anteriorly.That's protraction.And because it's pulling downward on the lateral aspect of the scapula, it's a downward rotator.It's gonna send that glenoid fossa facing downward.And here is picture of the anterior, or deep, or ventral surface of the scapula.Pectoralis minor attaching on that coracoid process, pulling in this direction.So it's going to depress, protract, and downward rotate.Send this glenoid fossa downward.And we'll see it do that here.Attachments: anterior ribs, coracoid process.And here we go.What's this muscle?We don't know yet.I guess you'd-- you might think it might be a scalene, but I don't see it attaching on the ribs.So it's a muscle we don't know yet.And it's turning green as that shoulder girdle depresses.And I think we'll view it protracting here, pulling that coracoid process anteriorly.Protraction.Okay.Turning green, shortening with protraction.So let's talk about another anterior muscle, anterior deltoid.Anterior deltoid attaches to the lateral clavicle, and inserts on, duh, deltoid tubercle of the humerus, lateral.And you know right where it attaches because you can see, in the gym, that deltoid insertion, right there on the deltoid tuberosity.Okay.So what does this muscle do?Gosh, it attaches right next to pectoralis major.Pectoralis major's clavicular fibers really echo what anterior deltoid is doing, and they share the function of flexion.Also, they share the function of medial rotation, pulling the lateral aspect of the humerus towards the midline of the body, rotating at the glenohumeral joint.So anterior deltoid, much like clavicular head of pectoralis major, is a flexor and medial rotator.And we'll see his, flexing, right there.Look at that anterior deltoid.Ooh la la.Okay.So biceps brachii is our next muscle.Two heads.A long head and a short head.The short head is the hypotenuse; the long head is the two other sides of the triangle.The hypotenuse goes from a distal insertion there, and it grabs onto the coracoid process.The long head goes up and over to attach to the supraglenoid tubercle.You know where that is.'Supra': 'superior to.'Glenoid fossa.You learned the infraglenoid fossa.We'll see what muscle attaches there later.Short cut to the coracoid process, the hypotenuse, the long way.The diag: short head.The long path: long head.Okay.So where does the biceps insert?It doesn't attach to the humerus at all.Here it is.Brachial muscle, muscle of the upper arm, and it doesn't even attach to the humerus.It inserts on the radius.And we'll talk more about its function at the elbow when we talk about the elbow.Right now, we're just going to consider its function at the shoulder.The long head, interestingly, lies right in that intertubercular groove.That groove you can feel on the anterior proximal humerus.You've got to feel your-- your biceps long-head tendon lives in that groove.And we'll see it here.Anterior deltoid and pectoralis major.We'll get to that later.Okay, he mentioned something called the 'bicipital aponeurosis.''Bicipital'-- that's, um, biceps.And if you flex your elbow against resistance, you're gonna see a little flaring out here.Little triangular, uh, piece.And that's a little bit of aponeurosis, a little bit of spread of that tendon.So you can see that there.Okay, let's check out his biceps.And there it is.Okay.Coracobrachialis.I claimed that you knew everything about this muscle by its name.'Coraco-': 'coracoid process.''-Brachialis': 'arm bone, upper arm bone.'So it attaches on the anteromedial humerus, and it has origin on the coracoid process of the scapula.So, so far today, we have talked about three muscles that attach to the coracoid process.Pectoralis minor, biceps short head, and now coracobrachialis.So that coracoid process is busy.It has attachment of a lot of muscles.So this muscle, as all of these anterior muscles-- caveat: except for one part of pectoralis major, they're anterior.They're flexors.And again, this muscle is functioning as an adductor of the glenohumeral joint as well.And so we're looking at this muscle right here, coracobrachialis.He's nice and lean, so we can see that.And, there it is, jumping out when he fle-- adducts against resistance.Let's find-- what are we looking at here?So here is a muscle attaching on the lateral clavicle, and deltoid tuberosity.Here's anterior deltoid.Here is a muscle with two heads.This must be biceps brachii.Short head attaching on the coracoid process.Long head, um, attaching on the supraglenoid tubercle.So this must be coracobrachialis, right here.Coracoid process to medial humerus, and it should turn green.Shorten with flexion, with anterior deltoid, biceps, and coracobrachialis.All flexors, anterior, at the glenohumeral joint.Okay, so there we are.We've done six muscles so far.Where's pectoralis minor?Oh.Must be a slide for the shoulder girdle.There we go.Okay.So we have some functions.We haven't found any lateral rotators yet.Not much in the extensor department.Not a single abductor yet.And for the glenohumeral joint, we still have a lot of muscle function to cover.So let's do that.We have to-- that's all we've got anteriorly.So now, let's look posterior.And, do we see anything that we recognize over here?We've got s-- very superficial dissection on the left.Those superficial muscles have been removed, so we can see some of the deeper muscles.We've got some erector spinae muscles that we can see easily.And up at the neck, anybody remember what that diagonal-going muscle is up there, superiorly?Anybody?Anybody?Know what this is?Mastoid process.Anybody remember anything about the back muscles?Yeah?Yes.Splenius capitis.Excellent.Okay.So, we have one person that remembers-- at least one person who remembers these muscles after spring break.I'm thrilled.Okay.So this is-- this was the intermediate layer that we started with, with-- on the back.So now we're gonna look at all these superficial muscles.So we've got the big trapezius.We're gonna find two more parts of deltoid, a middle and posterior aspect.Latissimus dorsi is here.Levator scapulae.You know the function of that muscle.Elevates the scapula.Rhomboids, something rhomboid-shaped.Serratus anterior, like a serrated knife.A scalloped attachment.Here's our rotator cuff group.We'll talk about triceps brachii, and a big muscle called 'teres.'So we've got a lot of work posteriorly.Similar to the back, there wasn't much on the anterior muscles when we talked about controlling the trunk.All the action was posterior.We've got a lot of action posteriorly for the shoulder joint as well.So I guess I'm going to start a cadaver video here.Wow.It's kind of your 'go-to' muscle.It does everything.So, let's look about-- let's think about trapezius for a moment.Which way does the scapula move when trapezius shortens?He gave us some ideas.So there it is.What do you think it does to the scapula, in terms of rotation?If those red arrows get shorter, how is the scapula going to rotate?And here we go.Definitely.This portion of trapezius pulls downward on the medial aspect.That's gonna send the glenoid fossa upwards.And the upper fibers attached to the lateral portion.Again, that's going to pull this scapula-- the gleno-- um, glenoid fossa upward.So the whole muscle works together in upward rotation.This muscle gets some kind of a prize for broad origin and broad insertion.From the skull, spinous processes of cervical and thoracic vertebrae: origin.And it inserts on the shoulder girdle, all along the spine of the scapula, the acromion, and then, it actually has, um, insertion also on the lateral clavicle.Do you remember any other muscles that attached on the lateral clavicle?Pec major.This way, would be a better representation of pec major.And-- no, pec major is medial clavicle.Anterior deltoid.Okay.So, different parts of trapezius have different functions.The other-- upper part is going to pull up on the scapula and elevate.These lower fibers are gonna pull down on the scapula and depress.So another muscle that's antagonistic to itself.The middle part hauls that scapula towards the vertebral column.Retracts.Pulls them together.And, synergistically, the whole muscle acts, to upward rotate.So, here are all the details about trapezius.Now that we've thought about its function, we can focus in on where it attaches.So origin: skull, external occipital protruberance.That's why I asked you to learn that landmark.Trapezius, all the way superior.And then, cervical spine and thoracic spine.And its insertion: lateral third of the clavicle, acromion process, and spine into scapula.And we'll see the upper fibers elevating.Okay, I'm gonna go back and stop here.Do you see the shape of his shoulders?So we can think of trapezius as-- you can see this.The shape of someone's shoulders is shown in trapezius.In Victorian times, they dressed the men to-- in the way the collars were designed, to enhance the-- the look of the trapezius.Or to, you know, to give a developed look to this part of the body-- body.He's obviously got a very strong trapezius, because we've got an angle here, instead of this right angle, like you might observe on me, with an underdeveloped trapezius.Okay, so that's that.We will see ro-- re-- retraction here, middle fibers pulling the scapula towards the spine, and we'll probably see depression here, pulling downward.There.Depressed, uh, shoulder girdle.Here's trapezius.Upper portion, middle lower fibers, and we'll see some-- the whole muscle-- I think they don't have it quite right here.It should all be green for upward-rotating the scapula.So it sounds like for deltoid, if you put down any function, you're gonna be close to correct.So here's his deltoid.Lateral aspect of the shoulder.And let's see.He's going to demonstrate 'extension' with his posterior deltoid.And what will we see here?Medial rotation of the anterior.So it's like a movie that's not showing up.Maybe you can look at it on your own.So we will see deltoid assisting with abduction here.So far, this is the only muscle that we know about that can abduct the glenohumeral joint: the medial deltoid.Acromion, straight down to the deltoid tuberosity.Abductor.And I think we'll see it, demo'ed.Uhp!Yep, there he goes.Abduction.Number of the day.Shall we make it the-- let's make it the date.A five.Alrighty.That's that.Moving on.Do you have a movie here?Or do you have a black slide too?Let's meet latissimus dorsi.Uh, aside from these cast iron skillets, you can see what he called the 'thoracolumbar fascia.'So that's really the aponeurotic tendon of latissimus dorsi.Aponeurosis is just a flattened, broad tendon.But you can really see that connective tissue in this video.Latissimus dorsi: it shapes this portion of the body.That bodybuilder pose brings out the latissimus dorsi.Extending, and medially rotating.And adducting.We saw it all.And latissimus dorsi should turn green as the glenohumeral joint adducts.There you go.That looks great.Good job.Latissimus dorsi, turning green when it shortens in adduction.And what else does it do?It is a medial rotator, so it's going to pull that anterior humerus posteriorly.Here it goes, turning green, pulling that anterior humerus as it shortens, posteriorly.So it is an adductor.Ooh.So, here is an axilla, as presented on a building in the south of France.And can you please tell me what muscle that you might see there, in that glorious armpit, that might be responsible for medially rotating the humerus?And, let's see what you have decided.You have decided correctly that it is either the anterior or posterior aspect of the axilla.Where are my slides?I know, I had better reload, because I'm losing a lot of slides here.I don't quite know what I'm losing.Uh, where am I?I think I missed this slide.Slide 54, if you go back.For some reason, it was black, and I skipped over it and I shouldn't have, because there was important information there.We actually hadn't talked about what the attachments were, formally.Broad origin: spine, thoracolumbar fascia, picks up a bit of the iliac crest.All over the place, basically.What is very, very important for me-- to me, for you to understand-- is that we finally found out who lives on the medial side of that intertubercular groove.Previously, we saw that pectoralis major reached over to the lateral lip of that groove.Pec-- uh, latissimus dorsi is coming from posteriorly to grab onto that medial lip.So, it is medially rotating together with pectoralis major.It's adducting together with pectoralis major.But it is antagonistic, at least to the clavicular part of pectoralis major, in that it's a powerful extensor.So who has big latissimus dorsi muscles?Swimmers.Extending the arm.That quiz might have made a little bit more sense, had we talked formally about the attachments before getting there.Okay, so in greyed-- in grey font, are the anterior muscles that we already talked about.So now we're filling in this chart.We, of course, did not find flexors.Uh-- oh, I guess it's where there's shared function, that they're greyed.Adductors, we've added latissimus dorsi to our list.Two extensors, in addition to pectoralis major, sternal portion.We've added posterior deltoid and latissimus dorsi.We have found another medial rotator.And finally, we have seen our first abductor.Middle deltoid.Upward rotation, trapezius.All of trapezius is an upward rotator.The upper fibers of trapezius are elevators.The lower fibers of trapeziu-- trapezius are depressors.So, another muscle that's antagonistic to itself.We have our first retractor: the middle fibers of trapezius.Okay.Still haven't seen-- we saw a protractor in pectoralis minor, but we haven't found any other protractors yet.But, look.Not to worry.There are more muscles to learn.So we've looked at the two big superficial muscles, posterior.Trapezius and latissimus dorsi.And we also added in the other parts of deltoid.Now let's go a bit deeper.We're going to dissect away these superficial muscles, and look deep.And that's where we're going to find rhomboids, uh, serratus anterior, and our rotator cuff muscles.So that's our job now.And splenius capitis.Alrighty.Levator scapulae.What does this muscle do?It elevates the scapula.So, does it not make sense that it would be attaching to the upward part-- portion of the scapula, since muscles can only pull, not push?And it has an attachment even superior to that.So earlier, when we saw a muscle that we might have thought was a scalene muscle, because we saw it attaching to these transverse processes, but it didn't attach to the ribs-- it attached to the scapula, we were looking at levator scapulae.So it attaches to that superior angle, and pulls that scapula up into elevation.Because it's pulling upward on this medial side, it's gonna send this glenoid fossa downward, so it can help with downward rotation when we have that need.Here is levator scapulae.I know it's not a scalenus muscle because I see its insertion on the ribs.I don't-- excuse me-- on the scapula.I don't see an attachment on the ribs, so I know it's not scalenus ant-- uh, scalenes.Alrighty.So, here, we're going to see levator scapulae elevate the scapula.There it goes.And we see the upper portion of trapezius also helping with that job of elevation.Attaching on the medial border of the scapula, inferior to levator scapulae, are the rhomboids.There's a big one and a little one, a major and a minor, but we're just gonna group them and call them the 'rhomboids' together.So they're getting attachment from-- mostly from the thoracic vertebrae, and inserting on the scapula on that vertebral, or medial, border.So when those fibers shorten: retraction.And I have the word 'adduction' written up here.That's the same as 'retraction' of the scapula.Pulling the scapula towards the vertebral column.And again, because they're attaching-- pulling upward on the medial side, it's gonna send the glenoid fossa downward into downward rotation.And, of course, pulling up on the scapula.They're gonna help out levator scapulae when you need to elevate.There's the retraction.Here's the retraction.It's gonna turn green.Oh, pulling the scapula towards the vertebral sp-- um, column.The vertebrae.Together with middle portion of trapezius.Huh.Let's think about that.What other muscle besides rhomboids retracts the scapula?Let's identify what we're looking at here.So first, let's look at this superficial dissection.Here's latissimus dorsi.There's the thoracolumbar fascia.Trapezius, with its huge origin, and its huge insertion.And posterior deltoid.So we talked about these muscles.Now, those are dissected away, at least trapezius and latissimus dorsi.So, here are the rhomboids.And they've been cut away.You can tell it's rhomboids because it's attaching here on the vertebral border, and then on the vertebrae themselves.Here's levator scapulae, attaching to that superior angle.I-- we can't see where it's attaching on the cervical spine because these other muscles are in the way.But we sure can see that insertion on the superior angle.So what's this question?What are the muscle?We just saw.The answer is this middle portion of trapezius.So, serratus anterior is a very interesting muscle.It has origin on the ribs.We've seen pectoralis ma-- minor having origin on the ribs.So does serratus anterior, and it has this serrated look, because it attaches to many ribs, and we call these little slips of muscle.Instead of 'heads,' they're called 'slips' for some reason.So that gives the serrated appearance, because of the attachment on these ribs.Anterolateral ribs here.Then, where does it go?It passes deep to the scapula, and then reaches around to the medial border of the scapula, the vertebral border.Under the scapula attaches on the far side, which, in the case of serratus anterior, would be the medial border.By doing that, it protracts this scapula.It's gonna pull that scapula towards the ribs, and anteriorly.It also helps with upward rotation, and it's impossible to sort out that function until we see some other views of that muscle.So we will get there.Here's a description.Punching.Okay, so let's see serratus anterior do its thing.Pulling that medial scapula anteriorly towards the anterior origin on these ribs.Powerful protraction.The 'pushing' muscle.When you have to push against resistance, that's gonna be your serratus anterior helping out with thatAnd what're we gonna see here?Upward rotation.There you go.Serratus anterior helps with that as well.And you can see trapezius adding in, as well.He called it the 'boxing muscle.'I called it the 'pushing muscle.'So if you're doing a push-up, let's see-- that's really pushing, pushing against the ground.Let's see what serratus anterior does.It turns green-- it should turn green.It is shortening, protracting the scapula, pushing against the ground.It's helping to push against the ground by protracting the scapula.So it's short-- shortening in protraction.Uhp.So you might as well just add that in here.Don't you like it, on the day after spring break, when I answer the questions for you?Okay, here we go.You're brilliant.Okay.Now, here's a very important function of serratus anterior.It prevents winging of the scapula.'Winging of the scapula' is when the-- that medial edge of the scapula, or the vertebral border, moves away from the rib cage.The scapula wing out.And, here is why that happens.Here's a lovely view of serratus anterior.And the scapula has been retracted; pulled away from the rib cage, so you can see deep to it.And now, you can finally see the path of serratus anterior, deep to the scapula, reaching over to that medial border.So when this muscle shortens, it clamps the scapula down against the thoracic cage.There is a nerve.The long thoracic nerve here, that's quite superficial.So this nerve can get damaged.And this is the nerve that controls serratus anterior.So if this nerve gets damaged, you fall against a sharp object, maybe, and damage that superficial nerve.And you can't engage your serratus anterior.You might know that, because you complain of weakness when you push-- you don't have that muscle to help.And there's winging of the scapula, and we'll see that dramatically, now.Here we go.Think it's gonna make me go to YouTube.Yep.So I need to do this.I need to go to YouTube.This is winging of the scapula.Look at the difference in these two sides of her body.Healthy; problems with serratus anterior over here.Looks good, looks good.Ay-yi-yi.That's winging of the scapula.She has-- serratus anter-- look at her trapezius, trying to make up for serratus anterior.That's winging of the scapula.Okay.She's lost so much function because of that one muscle, she's not able to stabilize her scapula.Okay.We don't need to look at more of that.Oh, oh, oh, oh-- this is gonna be-- uhp, uhp, uhp.Okay.Quick, quick: how do I get out of here?Exit full screen.Go back here.Okay.Whew, that was a close call.Here we go.So that's when you have the scapula.Turns out serratus anterior is a very, very important muscle.I actually had a 230 student come to my office the semester after he took the course.He was a weightlifter.And he said, 'I damaged my long thoracic nerve.I wouldn't even have thought about it.But I remembered that video in class.'So he's a weight lifter, somehow he had damaged that nerve, and he felt weakness.He went to the physical therapist-- the doc that was that, but anyway, he was, like, 'Go, 230!'Alrighty.So here-- oh, this might be a question.I won't answer it for you.Put the muscles in correct order.Look at me learning on the fly.Can you identify what's going on here?He's got his little skin pulled down to show a very superficial dissection here.Superficial muscles.Who's who?Alrighty.What have you got?You have, I'm sure, aced this one.And let's go through and number them.One: serratus anterior.Two: external oblique.Three: latissimus dorsi.One, two, three.So we've added in serratus anterior as a powerful and very important protractor.We've added in some more elevators, the levator scapulae and rhomboids.We've added another upward rotator, serratus anterior.We've added some downward rotators and retractors.So we've done well here, on the shoulder girdle.Alrighty.So here we are.It's 9:41, and we're about to look at the hardest muscles of the day.So stick with me for ten more minutes.And remember that on Wednesday, we're gonna do this same group of muscles all over again, right?In the redux lecture.So today is just a, 'Hello, meet the muscles,' and on Wednesday we'll just be working on their functions and their attachments again.Okay.So let's dive in and learn these rotator cuff muscles.What does that name tell you?Probably these muscles are rotators, but why are they called a 'cuff'?So, when you look at your coat, or your sleeves, there's ribbing at the cuff to bring it in close to your wrist.So these muscles are very, very close to the shoulder joint, to the glenohumeral joint.The rotator cuff.Deep muscles forming a cuff, right around the joint.That's the name.Now.There're four muscles here.Only three of them rotate!One of them doesn't even rotate.But it does do the 'cuff' part well.It's very close in.So we-- let's go learn these muscles.There's something that's really easy about these muscles in terms of their origin.Not so easy on their insertion.Origin: you could tell me where subscapularis is, right now.You could tell me where supraspinatus origin is, right now.Infraspinatus: infraspinous fossa.Right now you've got the origins.And then teres minor, we'll-- gonna have to dig a little deeper for that one.So here they are.Subscapularis takes origin from the subscapular fossa.Supraspinatus: supraspinous fossa.Infraspinatus: infraspinous fossa.Teres minor: right next to infraspinatus.These two go together.Teres minor, infraspinatus.Similar attachments, similar insertion sites.Infraspinatus and-- and teres minor insert very proximally, posterior.Right up there by the head of the humerus, posterior.That's the 'cuff' part, near the head of the humerus.Subscapularis attaches very proximally, but anterior.Consistent with its anterior attachment, on the scapula.Lesser tubercle.Subsca-- su-- uh, supraspinatus.Superior.In its attachment, origin, and insertion.So what do you think supraspinatus does?Uuuuhp.We found another abductor.That's the one muscle that doesn't rotate in the rotator cuff, because it's an abductor.Alrighty.Find the medial rotator, please.When these muscles shorten, which way will the humerus spin?Alrighty.Let's see what you think.Ah!Beautiful upper left quadrant, people.What else have we seen that attaches on the anterior part of the proximal humerus, that's a medial rotator?Pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, anterior, pulling backwards, medial rotators.Okay.When this muscle shortens, it's going to pull the posterior aspect of the humerus posteriorly.That's lateral rotation.Here's the anesthesiologist view of the rotator cuff.So what-- let's get-- find our landmarks.Here's clavicle.Here's acromion.Here's the spine of the scapula, so this must be supraspinatus.And look how it's getting to the superior portion of the humerus.It's passing underneath the clavicle, underneath the acromion to get there.Here's subscapularis.Anterior, deep, ventral surface of the scapula, attaching on the anterior portion of the proximal humerus, on the lesser tubercle, actually.When that shortens, its gonna to spin the humorous medially.And then infraspinatus.And the only reason I know this little bit is teres minor is because I know that infraspinatus and teres minor attach together.Let's meet them formally.Subscapularis: origin from subscapular fossa.Inserts anteriorly on the lesser tubercle of the humerus.And, like the two muscles that attach on either side of this intertubercular groove, shown here, with a bit of the long head of biceps filling that space; medial rotation.Supraspinitus-- -spinatus fills the supraspinous fossa, and inserts on the most superior part of the humerus, right uh-- uh, on the very superior aspect of the greater tubercle.And it has one function, and that is abduction.Finally, middle deltoid has a friend; someone who can help with this abduction job.And, infraspinatus: origin from infraspinous fossa.Attaches po-- has origin and inserts posteriorly on the greater tubercle.Very proximally, but posterior.And so it pulls this posterior side even more posteriorly.That's lateral rotation.And, I guess we'll see that here.Infraspinatus.This meat, right there.You had to look quick.Infraspinatus, laterally rotating, and associate teres minor with infraspinatus.Takes origin from the lateral border of the scapula, and inserts just distal to infraspinatus on the humerus.That is the rotator cuff group.We have two more muscles.I'm gonna finish this up quickly, and then we are done.So, we have to talk about teres major.Might guess where that is, now that we know where teres minor is, and then triceps.So let's just get this job done.This is for your viewing pleasure.Here's teres major.It also arises from the inferior aspect of the scapula, like teres minor did.They are neighbors on the scapula, but teres minor has a very different job in life.Rather than attaching on the posterior part of the humerus like teres minor does, it travels next door to latissimus dorsi, and attaches on the medial lip of the intertubercular groove with latissimus dorsi.So you should pair latissimus dorsi and teres major.And infraspinatus and teres minor.Okay.These are the very same functions as latissimus dorsi.And there's teres major.Teres minor, teres major.Here's his teres major, right here.Last muscle of the day!Here we go.Triceps brachii: long head.'Triceps': 'three heads.'We're gonna talk about only one today.Only the long head functions at the glenohumeral joint.The other two heads just function at the elbow.I asked you to learn where the infraglenoid tubercle was, just so you would know where triceps brachii long head attaches.It attaches to the infraglenoid process on the scapula, and it inserts-- again, skipping the humorous entirely-- it attaches on the ulna at the olecranon process.So it is an extensor of the glenohumeral joint, and we'll see it here.Oh!I muted.Oops.Okay, so I think what's happening is we are hearing the YouTube video, that's playing in the background somewhere.So I'll-- I'll play this video for you next time.So on Wednesday, we're just gonna review all of these muscles.Good job on getting here so early this morning.And good luck with the rest of your day.I hope your re-entry is not too painful.See you Wednesday.