Good morning everyone.It is a very intimate group this morning.I've never seen such a low head count, but I do hope that you will be glad that you got out of bed this morning, because I think that going over the muscles a second time is particularly helpful.So welcome to Wednesday, and let's get this job done.So.There was one slide that I didn't get to in the last lecture that was just a picture of an anatomical snuff box, with the tendons labeled.But you know what?I think you can handle that slide by yourself.So I'm just gonna leave it there for you.I didn't move it forward to today.And you might have noticed that there're a bunch of videos, um, to review on your own, at the end of the last lecture.So, here we go.And this looks like a question right off the bat.Is this question number one?It is, in fact.So we're looking for a muscle that might have origin here.So the job is going to be: what are we looking at here?What bone is this?Proximal or distal end?Anterior or posterior surface?Then, after you've gotten that done: what's medial, what's lateral?Then after that, it's a piece of cake.Yes.I thought I had posted everything over the weekend.I will go look for that while you're working on this.It will be it a matter of seconds.Not sure how I overlooked that.There it is.I just didn't attach it, I guess.Got it now?Do you have it now?Refresh your screen.Okay, good.Thank you.Alrighty.So that gave the rest of us time to sort this out.And, let's see what you've chosen.Big vote for triceps gr-- brachii medial head, and you're right.So let's sort out how you got there.Well, this looks like the distal humerus.Anterior or posterior?We know that there's a fossa on both sides, anterior and posterior, but let's go with the olecranon fossa.So that would be posterior.We know medial-lateral because the medial epicondyle is more prominent.So posterior, medial, distal.That sounds like a triceps.And in fact, the medial head.Now, why could it not-- if you were confused, and maybe thought this was the anterior surface, why would you-- uh.Coracobrachialis has an origin more proximal than this very distal portion of the bone.And, uh, brachialis is-- has the distal attachment.So if you were confused whether this was anterior or posterior, this would have been the choice if you thought you were anterior.But, it was the olecranon fossa, so we're posterior.Okay.No, we're not gonna play this game, are we?No.Okay.So there is what I just said, but written for you, to help you think about it a bit later.So any clue which muscles are flexors of the elbow?Look at the words.Think about where you might find these muscles in general.Anterior or posterior.Can that help inform you?Even if you don't have the details committed to memory, which I presume you don't, at this point.So can you think through to get to the answer?Alrighty.Anybody want more time?Ooh, is it brachioradialis, or is it coracobrachialis?So let's think about coracobrachialis.Where does that attach?'Coraco-' tells us 'coracoid process.''-Brachialis' tells us 'the humerus.'That muscle flexes the glenohumeral joint.Does that muscle cross the elbow?No.So even though it's a flexor, it's not an elbow flexor.Okay.So sometimes the big picture can get you where you need to be, so you can-- oh, so.That's-- that's correct.Brachioradialis.Let's think about where that attaches.That attaches humerus, the brachial part.And the radius.So it does cross the elbow.And you might have remembered that we talked about brachialis with the biceps brachii.The brachialis, the coracobrachialis, as an anterior muscle.As a flexor.So, putting the muscles together by function when you study, uh, can help you sort this out, even if you don't exactly remember what brachioradialis did.So, uh, let me just stop for a moment and say: when you study muscles, as you are thinking about this, I would make a flashcard for every muscle and divvy then-- them up.And do five a day, for example.Some number like that.Just focus on five muscles today; a different five muscles tomorrow.And then rehearse.And it's good-- uh, rehearse the second set after you've finished learning today's set of muscles.And you might want to group the muscles that you're learning together by function.So maybe you had a 'shoulder flexor' day.Or an 'elbow flexor' day.That-- that way, the muscles are coming together in their functional groups without specifically having to study, 'Who are the elbow flexors?'You're already-- are putting them together, because you're studying them by where they are as a group.Just a suggestion.Name a muscle that inserts at 11.Okay, where the heck is 11?Here's 11.Right here.Name the bone, name the landmark, and see if any bells go off.What attaches to that landmark on that bone?Any clue.If it attaches to that bone, does that give you any clue as to function?Does that trigger a thought?Pulling it out of the air.Okay, let's see what you have decided.You have decided that it is biceps brach-- 'bicep without an s.'Alrighty.Gotta love that.Thank you.That makes my day.Biceps brachii.So we're looking at the radius.We're looking at the anterior aspect of these bones, because we're looking right into that trochlear notch of the ulna.Radial tuberosity, for attachment of the 'bicep without an s.'Okay.Radial tuberosity.Which of the following muscles originates on the medial epicondyle of the humerus?And I see somebody already reaching for their medial epicondyle, which is wonderful.Because maybe when you were studying, you were touching your medial epicondyle while you were thinking about those muscles.And, it's in your body.It lets your body help you.Okay.Oh yeah, oh yeah.Medial epicondyle flexors.Woohoo!Good job.Now, you could-- if you remember that the medial epicondyle is associated with attachment of flexor muscles, then you could immediately eliminate 'c' and 'd' because they have 'extensor' in the name.And supinator-- ooh, you have no idea where supinator attaches yet.But maybe you remember that we talked about supinator with the extensors.For sure, we didn't talk about supinator with the flexors.But flexor carpi radialis is correct.Alright.Put the muscle insertions in the correct order.So let me tell you where these are.Thirteen is here, 12 is here, and 10 is here.So.We are looking for-- oh look, I've helped you, this morning.With which muscles we're trying to pin-the-tail-on-the-donkey here this morning.'Pin-the-the-muscle-insertion-on-the-bone,' I guess, is the game we're playing.Bones: anterior-posterior.Get that straight, then dive in for the details.Thirteen.Twelve.Ten.Okay.We have one very popular answer: 31.So let's see if we know what that is.So we're looking at posterior surfaces here.There's the olecranon process of the ulna.And here's the radius.So let's start with number 10.This is a muscle that inserts on the radius, so this might be a pronator or a supinator, because it's inserting on the radius, so it might be involved in that function.And the only supinator or pronator on the list was supinator.So in fact, this is where supinator inserts.Twelve and 13; this is triceps and anconeus.And triceps is 12; that very small, discreet insertion.And anconeus has this broad insertion.So that is what I have shown here.So remember, anconeus has not very much cross-sectional area compared to triceps, but it has this deceptive-- because it has this big insertion site, you wanna-- you wanna attach triceps there, 'cause triceps is such a big muscle.But in fact, triceps has a very small area of insertion on the olecranon process.Okay.What is the function of this muscle, speak of the devil?And you have decided that it is flexion and supination.Whoa.Whoa.This is a case where we need to remember we're looking at the posterior aspect of the joint.This is posterior.This is posterior.Remember I said, make sure you get oriented first?This is a good reason.What bone does this muscle-- even not even knowing its name-- insert on?Is this the ulna or the radius?It's the ulna.So therefore, this muscle can't function as a pronator or a supinator, because it's not inserting on the radius.Okay.And what would that muscle be?That's little anconeus.So, here is the broad insertion of anconeus on the ulna, which, by the way, we just saw.And here's triceps.Is this the lateral or medial epicondyle?If this is posterior, and here are all these muscles that are gonna extend the fingers, this must be the lateral epicondyle.Okay.Lateral epicondylitis.'-Itis': inflammation, associated with the lateral epicondyle now.Sometimes called 'tennis elbow,' and this is why it happens.Spending a lot of time playing tennis, for the first time in the spring, when maybe you haven't played it in a long time.And use of these muscles attaching to the lateral epicondyle get torn a little bit, micro-tears, strains.And those muscles attach to the lateral epicondyle.So that's where the pain is felt.So, my question to you is: what might some of those muscles be, involved in lateral epicondylitis?What muscles attach to the lateral epicondyle?Okay.You have made your choices, and we have a resounding majority for extensor carpi radialis brevis.So, extensor pollicis longus is an extensor also.Don't all extensors attach?Have origin on that lateral epicondyle?No.Some of the deeper muscles, uh, had a origin on the forearm bones themselves, and didn't ex-- reach all the way up to the humerus.So that-- at-- that, I would say, is kind of an advanced question, 'cause you can't just answer it from knowing that extensors attach to the lateral epicondyle.You have to know a little bit more detail, but perhaps you remember spending a lot of time talking about the extensors in the superficial group, and their attachment on the lateral epicondyle.And apparently you did, because we have a majority answer there.Okay, so here we are, looking at what?Anterior or posterior?Posterior, thank you.And medial or lateral epicondyle?Well, you've got a thumb there to help you figure out lateral.And you've got a great big epicondyle on the medial side that the muscles aren't attaching to.So all of these muscles are taking origin on the lateral epicondyle.We know they're extensors because they're on this posterior surface.So can you sort out which one is which?And you've done that.So let's see what we've got.We have got one answer that more than half of you like.Let's talk through this.So, let's start with the easy one, number three.Lateral epicondyle origin insertion on the base of the fifth metacarpal.So that's gonna be our extensor carpi-- ulnar side-- ulnaris.Easy.So one and two are our two extensor carpi muscles-- one longus, one brevis.Which is which?And we sure can't tell from looking at their insertions on the base of the second and the base of the third metacarpal.But, we can see a difference up here at the origins.And number one is going to be longer because it has a more proximal origin.So number one must be extensor carpi radialis longus.And it happens to attach on the base of number two there.And here's everything labeled for you.Which of these forearms is supinated?Okay.Uh, the obvious-- to most-- is that the forearm in anatomical position is supinated.Pronation crosses the bones of the forearm.And, if we were to look at this carefully, we can see that the medi-- the prominent medial epicondyle is on the ulnar side.So medial lines up with medial.So that's anatomical position.So good job you, on the left.But let's talk about this.What muscles do you see in this picture?You see two pronators and one supinator.So let's talk about-- let's look at the picture of supination and think about the muscles that are going to pronate.Here's pronator teres, and here's pronator quadratus.When these muscles shorten, they're going to pull the lateral side of the radius medially towards the origins, which are on the medial side, resulting in this position.This picture is really great because you can see that so easily.Conversely, here's supinator, an attachment on the lateral epicondyle-- an origin on the lateral epicondyle, and an insertion on the radius.And look at how it is stretched and its fibers are-- are lengthened as it wraps around that pronated radius.So if-- when this muscle shortens, it pulls the radius back around into this position of supination.The fibers are shortened here.So this-- this-- these two pictures might help you understand how the pronators shorten in pronation, and how the supinator shortens with supination.Labeled for you.That's all I've done here with these slides.Okay, moving distally, we're looking for a muscle that inserts here, at six.What muscle inserts here?What bone is this?What surface of this bone is it?Anterior or posterior?Let's see what you got.What's on your mind here?And we see brachialis, brachioradialis, pronator quadratus.What have we got?Oh, it would help if I'd shown you the right number.This is a five.This is a five.I was misreading it.So those of you who said that this was the insertion of pronator quadratus were partly right.It's actually the origin of pronator quadratus, because pronator quadratus would insert on the radius.And this is the ulna.So it's the origin of that muscle.So here's pronator quadratus.So I'm very sorry.This, uh-- I was wondering why this red line was over on the opposite side.This is the styloid process of the-- ooh, what bonus is this?Oh, it looks like the radius.So styloid process of the radius.So right there.And that is brachioradialis.For those of you who could read 'six' more easily than I could, you're right.Confusion?Are you okay?Are you with me on that one?I will take silence as, 'Yes, we're with you.'Okay.So the correct answer there is brachioradialis, inserting on the radius.So why isn't this a pronator or a supinator if it's inserting on the radius?Its moment arm is such that it-- it-- it doesn't have a mot-- moment arm.It's right in line with the axis of rotation for pronation-supination, so it doesn't contribute much in-- in either direction.It can pull-- actually, it pulls the forearm up into this neutral position, which is a little bit advanced.So we're just not going to be concerning ourselves with that function.Okay.So which muscle inserts at nine?This time I'll get it right.Here's nine; here's nine.Which bone am I finding nine on, in each picture?And, it looks like you can see nine whether you're looking at the anterior or the pot-- or the posterior view.So what muscle is nine?Okay.Yeah, everybody loves pronator teres for an insertion on the lateral aspect of the radius.Good work.I think-- did I put a checkmark there?I did.Mid-radius: pronator teres.Pronator quadratus inserts distally.Pronator teres: mid-radius.Pronator quadratus: distal radius.Also distal radius, we just saw, was brachioradialis.Okay.Name a muscle that originates at three.Here is three.What bone is that?Is that medial or lateral?Does that help you?We're looking for a muscle that has origin on that landmark?Okay.That landmark looks to me like the medial epicondyle, so we're looking for anything with 'flexor' in the name.Flexor-- the flexor carpis, palmaris longus, pronator teres.These four muscles.Uh, pronator teres, lateral radius, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus-- which you may or may not have-- and flexor carpi ulnaris.Oh, oh.Wish we could help.Alright.Oh.Alrighty.So anyway, here are the muscles that were candidates for answers to that question.Uh, I wanna add a quest-- uh-- I-- if we'll have any suggestions.When we get to our next free response, maybe we can come up with some suggestions for the lonely person.Okay.Anyway.Medial epicondyle, anterior surface.I see the-- the trochlea and the capitulum, so I know I'm anterior.Flexors: a flexor to the radial side, a flexor to the ulnar side, and palmaris longus.Not shown in this picture is pronator teres, which also would have been correct.And there's-- everything is labeled for you.And let's talk fingers now.We are naming a muscle that inserts at 24.Color-coded to help me find 24.Here's 24.Here's 24.Twenty-four looks like it's the lateral surfaces of the phalanges; looks like proximal middle distal phalanges.So the middle phalanges-- is this anterior or posterior?What is this?Anterior or posterior is your first job.And then you can take it from there.Okay, here we go.Hmm.We seem to know this is the flexor side.Excellent.You saw pisiform, you know it was the palmar side of the hand, you knew you were looking for a flexor.Good.Now, which is which?And the answer is that the profundus-- the deep one-- reaches the farthest, so it is not the profundus.It is the superficialis.Okay, let's consider carpal tunnel syndrome.We talked about it before in terms of what formed the carpal tunnel, the archway of the carpals and the transverse carpal ligament that puts a roof over that tunnel.And I mentioned that there were soft tissues that passed through that tunnel.Now we can name them.So, uh, many of the soft tissues you now know are the tendons of these long flexor-- finger flexor muscles.So, four tendons of the flexor digitorum profundus and the superficialis.How do we tell them apart?Superficialis is more superficial, so closer to the skin of the palm of the hand.Profundus: deeper, closer to the carpal bones themselves.In addition, we have flexor pollicis longus, the flexor of the thumb, and we also have the-- this yellow thing.This yellow thing, we don't talk about in this course, except to mention that it's there.That is a nerve.This-- the median nerve.And it supplies sensation in part of the hand and fingers, and it controls some of the muscles-- the intrinsic muscles of the thumb-- that we're also not studying.But when that carpal tunnel is smaller, or these tendon swell and get bigger, there's going to be an issue.And so, we can see here now what these structures are inside this carpal tunnel.In this case, compressing the median nerve.And the surgical treatment of this is to transect the transverse carpal ligament to allow more space for these soft tissues, right?So if you follow this link, you can see the surgery it-- itself.Okay.So now we've finished the story of carpal tunnel syndrome, because we know why mousing, or typing, or cutting up chickens all day in a factory can result in carpal tunnel syndrome, because the long finger flexor tendons can get inflamed.Okay, back to the 'pin-the-name-on-the-muscle' game.Here is muscle eight.Actually, tendon of muscle eight.And what do you think that might be?Is this the anterior or the posterior aspect of the forearm that we're looking at here?And how would you know that?And then, decide what you might be looking at there.I see flexor.I see extensor.So we can solve that by knowing if we're looking anterior or posterior.Mostly extensor, and mostly extensor digiti minimi, which I think is quite a good answer.So, how do we know that this is posterior?So what might we expect to find posterior?Double ten-- double tendons to the digiti minimi.Double tendons to the index finger.I don't see a palmar fascia.I do see anatomical snuff box muscles-- this-- these diagonal muscles.We don't see those on the anterior surface.And in fact, there's the anatomical snuff box right now.Th-- right there.So all of that is giving me information that this is the posterior side.And there it is, labeled for you.Number of the day.Five?Uhp.Pi.Pi.Whoa.Pi.How many digits are you gonna go, with pi?I was gonna say the number of the day was one, cause it's the loneliest number.But we're gonna go with pi.Okay.Thank you.This will be fun for me to look at, because I'll get lots of different things.Okay.So, moving on.Name the muscle that attaches at 27.Ooh.Uhp, uhp, uhp, uhp, uhp, uhp.We're not gonna have a quiz.We're just gonna be mentally answering this question: are we anterior or posterior?Do you see pisiform?No, so we are posterior.So what attaches all along here, in the middle?That's the extensor expension-- expansion.So this is extensor digitorum.Looks like you're gonna have to actually put that in your notes, because I don't have the answer slide following up.So extensive digitorum is shown here.Alrighty.Click on extensor digitorum.Okay, we're gonna spend a lot of time with this cross-section, to see if we can sort out relationships among these muscles.So you have been told where the radius and ulna are.But you haven't been told here on this figure.It's not labeled, what's anterior and what's posterior.So you gotta figure that one out yourself.What do you expect to find anteriorly?What you expect to find posteriorly, with regard to digitorum muscles?Okay.And here we go.Either here, or here.I agree.It's up here.Extensor digitorum.And why is that?Because on this side, you might see one two, three, four tendons, plus another one, two, three, four tendons.So 11 and 12 are the two flexor digitorum muscles, superficialis and profundus.So good work.Find extensor carpi radialis longus, or extensor carpi radialis brevis.I think this is the hardest cross-section of all of them that we're ever gonna look at.So hopefully you're clicking on something on the radial side-- eeee.Something on the extensor side, so not these.And in fact, it's these two.They travel together.They're inserting on the base of the second and third metacarpals, so we'd expect them to be near each other.So five is yet to be determined, what five might be.But three and four are the extensor carpis.And I'm sure I have this labeled for you later, but let's just keep-- ooh!Okay, now we've got 'dorsal' labeled for us.So here we go, finding extensor carpi ulnaris.We found extensor carpi radialis longus and brevis.Now let's find extensor carpi ulnaris.Alrighty, here we go.Eight and nine.Both extensor side-- that is posterior, or dorsal.Both close to the ulna, not on the extensor side.So eight or nine, which is it?And it is nine.So we have to determine what eight is going to be.That's gonna be coming up.So here are things labeled for you.Three and four are the extensors of the carpal side of the wrist.Nine is the extensor of the ulnar side of the wrist.So let's keep working.Snuff box muscles.Anything that might be related to the snuff box.Which side of the wrist do you think you would find snuff box muscles on?And then what?Okay.Now, I can't draw a box around the right answers, because they don't fit into a-- an exclusive rectangle.So, I'm gonna label that elsewhere.But let's talk about that for a moment.It can't be three and four, because we just decided those were the extensor carpi radialis longus and brevis.It can't be anything over here, because this is the ulna side of the wrist.And we've already decided what nine is, anyway.Not here, because I've already told you what those were.And those are on the flexor side.So let's look.One and two are the anatomical snuff box muscles, the side of the snuff box that has two tendons together, and that's the most lateral part of the snuff box.So those are what?The abductor, and the brevis.Abductor pollicis longus, and extensor pollicis brevis.The two 'b' muscles.The two muscles with 'b's in their names.Then, five is the extensor pollicis longus.Finally we figured out what five is.And there's a space between them, because the space is the snuff box.And if you put your finger in the snuff box, you're pointing at the bases of metacarpals two and three, and that's the extension-- these extensor carpi radialis insertions.So this is not obvious, but when you about it, it begins to make sense.Finally, let's start looking over here on the ventral or palmar side, and find the flexors of the fingers, in particular.Flexor digitorum superficialis.'Flexor' tells you whether it's gonna be palmar or dorsal.'Superficialis' tells you its relationship to other muscles.So, the anatomist who named this muscle was helping us, because it's the superficial one.It's closer to the skin.Twelve is flexor digitorum superficialis, which you just indicated.Eleven is flexor digitorum profundus, because it's deep; it's closer to the bone.What do you think 13 might be, given our discussion of carpal tunnel syndrome?It's the median nerve, or it could be palmaris longus, right?Since we don't have nerves in here, we just have tendons: it must be palmaris longus.And I probably have a question about that.Alright.Click on flexor carpi radialis.First thing to do: which is palmar, which is dorsal on the figure; anterior-posterior; where do you expect to find a flexor, and where's the radial side of the wrist?Well, we've identified all of these.We've identified this, so it's either 15 or 14.Fourteen seems to be compartmentalized in some kind of a compartment with these finger flexors.So, in fact, this might be a flexor of another digit that we haven't identified yet.The thumb.So 15 is the flexor of the wrist on the radial side.Labeled for you here.Ten is flexor carpi ulnaris.Fifteen, you just identified as flexor carpi radialis.And 14 in the same compartment with flexor digitorum superficialis: flexor digitorum profundus is the flexor of the thumb, flexor pollicis longus.So the news here is not only what 15 is, but also what 10 and 14 are.So I think we've inventoried everything here.Yes, we did.So.This is tough.I would spend some time with this cross-section, so that you could identify any of these muscles that we've just identified in class.Okay?Let's find the insertion of extensor carpi radialis longus.Oh, dear.This is a detail.Where would you expect an extensor of the carpal side of the wrist to insert?You can start there.Alrighty.Let's see what you have decided.You have decided... no, no.We want base of some metacarpal.That's where we expect to find these wrist flexors and extensors to attach.And I see a lot of traffic here at 29 and 30.Base of the second, base of the third.Good job.And in fact, number two is associated with the longus.Detail, detail, detail, detail.Let's find the insertion of flexor carpi ulnaris.We're looking at the palmer surface here.Where's that flexor carpi ulnaris going to attach?Okay, here we go.And we're looking for ulnar side.Base of the fifth.Pisiform.I'm happy with-- with anything here.Okay, now, let's-- let's leave muscle attachments aside for a moment, and think about muscle function.This movement is called... in your head, you're saying, 'Ulnar deviation.'So, what muscles are going to work synergistically, act together?'Synergistic': turned on by the brain at the same time.We need two muscles to make this movement.Which muscles are they?Okay.So what we need are: these two.You're correct.We need the two ulnaris muscles, because those are gonna pull the wrist towards the ulnar side.They're gonna shorten and ulnar deviate the wrist, if they're turned on at the same time, so we can get pure ulnar deviation.To cancel out the flexion, we turn on the extensor.To cancel out the extension, we turn on the flexor.So these two muscles come on together to create pure ulnar deviation.That is, no other movement but ulnar deviation.That's unusual.We haven't seen that before, that there is no muscle whose job in life is ulnar deviation.It takes two muscles to cause this movement.Okay, extensive digitorum.I imagine this question is about the 'question-mark' muscle.Whoops!And there's the answer.Okay.So, before we get to the answer, let's look at what that muscle might be.So, anterior or posterior?There's the olecranon process and the olecranon fossa-- that's posterior.I know I'm looking at a bunch of extensors, and even if I didn't know that, here it's labeled for me.So I know I'm posterior.I know this is lateral epicondyle.So this is a muscle that has origin on the lateral epicondyle, but importantly, where does it insert?And I'm following this tendon all the way to its end.And I'm ending up on the digiti minimi, the little finger.So, there's extensor digiti minimi.Okay, I'm liking that these questions are getting easier.So, what have we done here?Well, extensor digitorum has been dissected away so we can look at the muscles that are deep to it.So we're looking at this deeper compartment of posterior muscles of the forearm.And the telltale diagonal path of the anatomical snuff box muscles are shown here.But the 'question-mark' muscle is deep, and I don't remember anything about its origin.But I'll look at its insertion to figure out which extensor it is.And it's going to the index finger, so this must be extensor indicis.Okay?Find your first metacarpal.Know what bone you're talking about.How does that bone move?Then start thinking about this question: if your job was to move the first metacarpal, what would you be?Yes.You would be the abductor.Good job.This muscle is very important in our world of thumb mobility that like-- lets us oppose.We have to haul that first metacarpal around to abduct that thumb so we can do opposition movements.So this muscle is really important.It's causing motion at the first carpometacarpal joint.And to do that, it attaches on the base of the first metacarpal.Alright.Twenty-one, 22, and 23.Twenty-one, 22, 23.Are we looking anterior or posterior?Which digit is this?What bones are attaching?Which bones are these muscles attaching to?Let's talk about this.You just told me that abductor pollicis longus attached on the base of the first.Extensor pollicis longus attaches on the proximal.And the longus attaches way out on the distal phalanx.Okay.So you-- here are the insertions of the anatomical snuff box muscles.Did you get that in your notes?'Cause I don't have it for you here.Okay.You're good?Uh, maybe I have it here-- well, I guess we're gonna continue our discussion of the anatomical snuff box muscles.One, two, three.One, two, three.What's the difference here?Uh, the difference is that the dissection on the right, the origins of the muscles are exposed by the removal of extensor digitorum here.So you can see the origin of these three snuff box muscles.And, can you figure out which one is which?The insertion is your big clue.And you're there?Ah, still don't have it labeled.Alright, let's label these.One is the abductor, and I'm following that-- let me do it here.You can see the path maybe more clearly.Where does it insert?It inserts on the base of the first.Number one is abductor pollicis longus.Two inserts on the base of the proximal phalanx of the thumb.That is extensor pollicis brevis.And as we expect, the abductor and the brevis, together, form one border of the anatomical snuff box.Number three inserts on the distal phalanx of the thumb, or pollicis.So three is extensor pollicis longus at the other border of the snuff box.And we have the cadaver view here.Do I have a question?No.So let's find them again.Four and five are the two muscles on the lateral border of the snuff box here.Abductor and the brevis.And six is extensor pollicis longus, the medial border of the anatomical snuff box.And there's the space that you've found on your own wrist.Hmm.Hmm.One, two, three.What have we got here?Rather deep dissection.The muscles attaching here at the medial epicondyle-- many of those have been cut away.So that we can see a deeper dissection.And can you identify one, two and three?First of all, you might note that we've switched back to the anterior surface here, because you can see the trochlea and the capitulation.You can see the pisiform.We know we're on anterior forearm, so we're looking at flexors of some sort.And then, where do they insert?To sort out which is which.Two and three are gonna take a little bit more work than one.Which is which here.And let's see what you have decided.Mmm, there's a majority view, and let's talk about why these are what they are.Flexor pollicis longus, of course, inserts on the thumb.So which one is superficial, and which is deep?The superficial-- you can look at this insertion, superficialis-- has this split tendon.And we can verify that that's correct, because in the dissection on the right, superficialis has been dissected away so we can look deep to it.To the profound, deep muscle, deep to the superficialis.And as expected, the profundus tendons pass through the split of the superficialis, and insert on that distal-- those distal phalanges.So it all lines up as it should.What muscle inserts here?And... tell me what I'm looking at here.Is this anterior or posterior?Which bone would this correspond to-- is that, uh, arrow pointing to?And then you can answer the question.And you have selected, I presume, flexor digitorum profundus because-- how do you know?Because this is the palm of the hand.This is anterior, and how do you know that?Well, these thumb muscles-- the thenar muscles-- is that bulge of musculature in the palm of your hand that you don't see on the posterior aspect.Basically, that's what's telling you this is palmar.Also, you can see palmaris longus in here, and you do not see the anatomical snuff box muscles.So it's a 'what's-there; what's-not-there,' to help you sort out anterior or posterior.And, lookie where we are.We are finished.So, in lab this week, you'll see all these muscles if you're in the lab.Next week, we're gonna tackle the hip.The hip will be much easier than these forearm muscles, so that will be some relief for you.So enjoy the rest of your week.And if you have questions, come to office hours or email me.Otherwise I will see you on Monday of next week.