-One.Welcome to our last gathering in this course, where we talk to each other.A little bit of adding insult to injury this morning, when we had-- what was that?Snow?Coming down, on your way to class this morning?I sound really loud to myself.Am I really loud to you?No?Okay.So let's talk for a moment about what it's gonna take to wrap up 230.I just sent out an announcement to you about evaluating the course.Only about 25 percent of the students in this course have used the online course evaluation.So please don't forget to do that.And only about half of you were here last time to fill out that form on paper.So I've also attached that.So encourage your friends to, uh, subm-- complete that evaluation, so I can get more specific information about GradeCraft when the time comes.So, let's talk about the last exam.You can take it on Monday, or you can take it at the scheduled final exam time.Show up for one of them.You don't need to tell me in advance.If you're not here next Monday, I'll expect you on that Wednesday.The exam is the same length as the others have been: 54 questions, so it will all be predictable.But the final exam time allows for two hours.So rather than meeting at 8 AM, we will meet for the last time at Michigan time, at 8:40 on that Wednesday.So, you'd have the same amount of time as people taking it on the last day of class.The questions will cover all of the lectures from the modules indicated there, including today.And in addition, on the movement analysis questions, I might ask you, if we're talking about a neck movement, to name a particular muscle that might be involved.So that's what I mean by 'function of all muscles.'And I'll be aiming for the big ones to help you prepare for that.Any questions about that?So, I currently have 150-- exactly-- assignments to grade, and there're gonna be a whole bunch more that are turned in today.So I'm going to focus on grading in the next three days.So you'll have a little bit more feedback about where you stand before the weekend, in case your grades on some assignments might make a difference to you in how you prepare.I'll do my best.I may not be able to get through all of them, but I'll do my best.Any questions about any of this, before I launch into today?Office hours after class today.If you have questions, email me.I won't be on campus on Friday, unfortunately, during regular.Okay.So what I would like you to do today is to sit back and relax.There'll be a couple of questions on this lecture on the last exam, but they're gonna be obvious.If you're just here following along, you'll be able to get it.Okay, so I just want you to enjoy today, thinking about a cultural context for our knowledge of musculoskeletal anatomy, and some historical content.So-- oop!I'm sorry.I have a few questions for you, just to help you think about gait, and muscles controlling gait, for-- I have a few questions for you about this before we proceed.So, what muscle acts eccentrically at the end of stance phase?If you can get through the questions that I asked in class last time, and today, about gait, we'll be well prepared for these questions on the last exam.We have a hip extensor, a hip flexor, a plantar flexor, and a dorsiflexor.Alrighty.Hmm.We're not quite there yet.Because the majority answer is not correct.Iliopsoas acts eccentrically at the end of stance.In fact, soleus does as well.But what we're talking about here is hip flexors.So why is this?At the end of stance, the hip is extending, but psoas, the hip flexor, has turned on early to reverse that hip motion into flexion.Okay, moving on.What muscle acts concentrically at the end of stance?So this is that 50 to 60 percent, right smack in the middle, end of stance.We're making the transition to swing that leg through.Okay, and now we've got-- we want gluteus maximus again.Everyone's goin' for 'a.'That's not correct.So what's happening there?At the gastrocnemius and soleus-- so plantar flexors-- are active to slow down this forward rotation of the tibia, but before the foot comes off the ground, they start to plantar flex, right?To push off the ground.So they have to be shortening.There has to be plantar flexion to push the foot off the ground.Beginning of stance: what muscle acts concentrically?So I'm here.Doing this.Loading on to the stand's leg.And here we go.This time 'a' was the correct answer.What's happening here?Gluteus maximus is turning on to pull that hip into extension.So what are we learning so far?That we haven't really thought yet, too much, about this stance, this gait muscle control, likely because the lab exam is this week, and you'll get to it shortly.But now you're getting an idea of what the job's gonna be.Which muscle acts eccentrically at the end of swing?End of swing?Extension phase of the knee.And the very, very surprising answer here is the one that you have all agreed on.Hamstrings.To slow down-- paradoxically, to slow down that knee extension.The knee flexors turn on.You got one.Great.Okay, and one more.When is right gluteus maximus active during the gait cycle?Whooh, this is hard.Now we have to think about two legs.Okay.So, hmm.Right gluteus medius.All that talk about gluteus medius was controlling the pelvis, when standing on one leg.So I would choose either 'a' or 'c.'Something about right stance.And, the important thing about right stance is when you're standing on just one leg, and the left leg is not in contact with the ground, that means the left leg would be swinging through.So the answer is: 'a,' again.The majority of you got that right.Okay, so take these questions.Put them in your 'I'll-think-about-this-on-Sunday' bucket.And make sure that your-- your thinking is really clear regarding all these questions about stance, and you'll be in good shap-- er, about gait control, and you'll be in good shape.Okay, so now we are ready to talk about, um, history.So, here we are, off the graph, over on the right side, in the twenty-first century.And these two lines are showing when dissections took place, and when it was okay, culturally, to do dissections.And so the interesting moments are when these two curves diverge.So, here is-- this is-- now, when you walk into a museum, you call this-- um, uh-- this is-- somebody tell me.This is 'CE,' 'common era.'And what's 'BE'-- what is 'BC'?Before common era.'BCE.'Okay.So we have, way back when, a bulge here.A long, long time ago.And this is related to the cave paintings.When there was some interest in anatomy.We move into something more recently.The time of all of those Egyptian pyramids.And we see that dissections were performed, but it wasn't commonly accepted.That's because the mummification that was taking place-- that you go to museums and see those mummies-- that was a religious practice.Only the priests could do that.So they were the only ones who had that knam-- knowledge.They were the first ones to embalm, and actually that knowledge was lost after this time.So then we move into something that maybe you begin to s-- you've begun to study and some Western Civilization course in high school, or-- or some history courses here.Greece, the time of Homer.This is classical times.And, we'll see what Homer did to learn anatomy-- a poet-- or what might be going on in that time shortly.And then we see Peter the Great starting Alexandria, the golden age of anatomy.And there's learning going on here, that-- some knowledge about medicine and anatomy that was gained here-- with some shifting of those curves.We move into some flat lines-- here are the Middle Ages.And then here we go with the-- with the Renaissance, and entering into the modern era.So let's look at what's going on in these times.So here's Omer-- Homer.Eighth century before common era.And, this is how he might have done anatomy, um with this stone he struck Aeneus on the hip where the bone turns in the hip socket, that they call the 'cup.'So there was some knowledge of the acetabulum, actually, before it was named 'acetabulum.'The cup was smashed and the two tendons ruptured.So what two tendons might be being described here?What-- what attaches near the acetabulum?Anterior inferior iliac spine, perhaps?What muscle attaches there?Rectus femoris.Okay?So they didn't know what these were called, or even the course of those muscles.But just in the-- just in a war wound, there are some anatomy might be exposed.Hippocrates-- the Hippocratic oath that some of you might take on the day that you graduate from medical school.So this is a couple hundred years on.And Hippocrates-- modern-- you know, we think of Hippocrates as this great physician.Had never dissected a human body.Envisioned the possibility of doing a dissection.'If, in the upper arm, one were to peel back the flesh from the top of the shoulder and from the point to which the muscle extends.And where to peel back the tendon, which lies in the armpit, and reaches along the clavicle to the chest--' pectoralis major-- 'it would be apparent that the head of the humerus projects strongly forward, though not dislocated.For the head of the humerus inclines naturally forward, whereas the rest of the humerus is curved outward.'So these are kind of qualitative descriptions of what might be seen underneath the skin.As we move onward, Aristotle, this great philosopher and scientist, would be horrified by the idea of a human dissection.So, let's look at animals.'The internal parts of the human body are for the most part unknown, so that in studying them one must have recourse to the parts of other animals to which their nature is similar.'Primates, for example.So what does that mean?So, how did we know about how the body functioned?We didn't know what the anatomy was because we weren't looking at it, and so we certainly didn't understand, uh, physiology.So any of you who've-- who might have taken a History of Medicine course, you've heard about those 'humors.'It was a-- it was a philo-- philosophical venture to understand how the human body functioned, rather than what we know as science.So along comes, um, Alexander the Great.Peter the Great was in Russia.Sorry about that.Aristotle taught Alexander the Great.Alexander then went to Alexandria and founded the city.Now, Aristotle was Greek.Where's Alexandria?It's in Egypt.So Aristotle's teaching were in Greek.And then, what language do you suppose is anatomical knowledge-- is in now, when we're in Egypt?It's translated to Arabic.Okay?So, Herophilus was the first scientist to conduct human dissections, and the scientific study of anatomy begins.So we-- we saw those two curves around the time of, um, Alexandria.So at least in this city, um, one could do dissections.So now, we're moving from Alexandria back to Rome.So the Romans were interested in learning from the Greeks.So these Roman empire-- emperors, then, took on these knowledgeable Greeks.Galen, for example.And now we're moving to common era.We've crossed over to our side of the zero line.And Galen believed that the structure and function of the body perfectly suited innate-- a divine architect's notion of how the body should work.He wrote a lot.And, here we see that he accidentally was able to look at two human skeletons.'If you have not had the luck to see something of this sort, then dissect an ape, removing the flesh and observing each bone with care.Choose those apes, which are most like man, having short jaws and small teeth.'And so we can thank Galen for some of the words that you have appreciated in this course.Describing long bones with the epiphyses and diaphyses, vertebrae, ribs, sternum, clavicle, trochanter, diarthrosis, synarthrosis, suture and symphysis.We thank Galen for this.Have any of you ever contributed to medical students with buckets, a little bit before Christmas?The 'Galen tag days,' and you get a little piece of cardboard with a string on it that said you've contributed?So the medical students have this thing that they do, before Christmas, where-- where they collect donations, and it goes to Mott's Children Hospital.And that's named after Galen.So, Galen's knowledge is in Greek.Okay.So, after that time, we enter into the flat line of the Middle Ages, where our knowledge in the west is held still.And basically, what happened was whatever Galen said back in the 200 CE time, we're just gonna say that's how it is.Because he talked to us about this divine architect, and that established what we know about anatomy.And so, the Catholic church in Europe was a very dominant voice at this time.The body was considered-- to think about the body was considered a horrible thing to do, because it's-- it's the vile, contemptible flesh.And so-- and there were high penalties for a scientific curiosity about anatomy in those times.So, get-- imagine 800 years without new information.Eight hundred years.And how was that information passed along?In handwritten manuscripts.We didn't have a printing press yet.So every book was hand copied.There weren't drawings in these anatomy texts, yet, and so you can imagine that if a monk wasn't familiar with anatomy and messed up, that error got propagated forward.But, Galen was Greek.Uh, these documents are translated into Arabic, and so we get some Arabic-derived terms in our anatomy.But, uh, at the end of-- as the Middle Ages are coming to an end, now we're translating-- we went from Greek to Arabic, and now back to Latin, which is the language of science.And occasionally, dissections were in-- were allowed.The legal context was this: was to settle disputes.So along, now, comes the Renaissance.Fourteenth to sixteenth century.So this is 1300s to 1500s.So we've got some science in Latin.And there's some curiosity now-- um, a sense of wanting to-- being inspired by the classical times of those Greeks, and a spirit of knowledge acquisition is-- is reborn.And so dissections begin to happen at some of the great European universities.So of course, I'm talking now-- this history is a western history.And books are-- that are put into print now might make some of this knowledge more accessible to others.That is, books are getting slightly less precious, and that they're not hap-- hand-copied.But still, one needs to be able to speak Latin, to read Latin, to access the knowledge in these books.So this is what an anatomy lab might have looked like in those days.Fresh-- not embalmed-- corpse.So dissection would be done, uh, rather than systemically by system-- 'Let's look at the skeletal system.Let's look the muscular system.Let's look at the nervous system.'It was done by, 'Let's get rid of the stuff that's going to stink worst first.'So not necessarily a scientific approach to the teaching and learning of anatomy from a corpse.So this is 1400s, and the cleanup crew is also shown here.So typically, the anatomy professor had nothing to do with the dissection in this time.The anatomy professor was up there with the book, maybe providing guidance, reading the words about the structures.While somebody, a barber surgeon, or someone who couldn't read Latin, who is not trained as an anatomist, is actually doing the work.Mondino was a famous anatomist here in Italy, who-- who did some writing about anatomy and also taught in this form, as shown here.Sitting away, giving instruction, not doing the dissection.So you all are aware of Leonardo da Vinci, as a Renaissance artist.You know him as a scientist as well.So let's talk for a moment about Leonardo and his anatomy.So, Leonardo's interest in anatomy started, um, to inform a book he was-- he wanted to write about painting.To give information to other painters about how to do it properly.That book has been lost to the ages.But later on, he really took on the study of anatomy.In one particular winter, he dissected over ten cadavers in Milan.And he made drawings, and you've seen some of them, um, as we've gone through the course.His interest was really trying to figure out how the body worked, rather than trying to inform artists about how to make better paintings at-- at this point.So when you look at these notebooks, you'll see some of his mechanical point of view.He talked about how-- how to represent these muscles.This particular individual was a man that he said was 100 years old and he was at the man's bedside when he died.He was a very-- um, and then he promptly dissected him.And we've seen this image, or-- some of the drawings from this particular dissection before.And we know that pectoralis major doesn't look like this.The man was very, very thin, however, so it might have given this impression to Leonardo.But he used this to really illustrate what we would call the 'lines of force' of the muscle.And actually, in some of his discussions, he talks about that in particular.So if you look here, you can see coracoid process, and you can see two tendons that we know attach.Ther-- there's a third one in here that he hasn't shown, but you can see that he is showing a deep dissection related to this one, pectoralis minor.And he's showing it there.So, uh, I guess we could say that Leonardo was the first one to really say, 'Look at the body.'These drawings were made for the purpose of teaching anatomy, but then they disappeared for two-- 200 years.How is that possible?Well, Leonardo, when he died, bequeathed his-- his drawings to a friend.And so those papers were personal.They were-- they weren't published.And so, the papers went from hand to hand until they-- until they ended up in-- actually, in Windsor.Leonardo's notebooks belong to the royal family.And so-- in England, at this point, just through how these papers got passed along; these private papers got passed along.Okay, so Michelangelo was alive at the same time Leonardo was alive.He was younger than Leonardo, and they crossed paths in Florence at some point, and they were competitors.They had different points of view.So here we see Michelangelo's famous 'David' statue.And then a drawing that Michelangelo did in preparation for his painting of the Sistine Chapel.Do we think Michelangelo did some dissections?Oh, yeah.Uh, there's-- that's been documented, and we can see that he obviously knew a lot about anatomy.What's kind of interesting here is that when you look at David, his head and his hands are-- are larger than they should be, because you-- you look at-- up at that.So that was intentional.And actually, Leonardo's first-- first forays into anatomy were just to describe the proportions of the body, because that hadn't been written down before.So the famous Vitruvian man that you see: Leonardo did that early on in his anatomical studies to talk about proportion.Okay.So, Andreas-- Andreas Vesalius came along.He's, uh, Belgian.And he gets credit for being the first person to break this stranglehold of Galen, and say, 'Don't read about it in a book.Go look at a cadaver if you wanna learn anatomy.'That's big news in the sixteenth century.And he published his book.We've seen a lot of these drawings in this course.1543, when he's-- he is actually providing images in an anatomy book, to teach you how to look for these structures.So, he-- when he gave anatomy lectures, he actually did the dissection.So that's changed things a lot.He's getting his hands dirty, literally.So the person with the knowledge is doing the dissection.That's brand new.And he's using visual aids to help learn anatomy.So this book, of which the University of Michigan has an original copy, that's just quite amazing.One just can never stop being impressed by the University of Michigan library.So, uh, Galen found-- horror of horrors-- errors in the grand master Galen's anatomy.And he encouraged students to look directly at the body, rather than just taking it as gospel, as it might have appeared in Galen's books.So, does this look familiar?The reason that we have this kind of Italian Tuscany-looking landscape, um, was due to the artist that Vesalius collaborated with to make these wood block prints of-- of anatomy.You can see one of the skeletons that Vaselius prepared, um, if you happen to travel to Basel in Switzerland.So what I'm gonna do right now is pause for a moment.And read something to you.This was the job that Vesalius had, in order to prepare a skeleton, in order to do dissection.Because dissections are rare at this time, it's only by someone in power, giving dispensation-- a pope-- anyway.'You can see then how easy it is to prepare the bones of the human body, which are so much sought after by physicians.They're rare.It is the actual assembly, which we'll see in the most difficult part of the task, to someone who's not personally engaged in it.Yet the first time I tried it, I achieved a fair measure of success, following the example of those whom I had sometimes seen repairing broken plates and assembling stone cauldrons.The technique of boiling,'-- bones-- 'I learned from its medical use for softening.After the tumult of war forced me to return from Paris to Louvain, I went for a walk with Gemma Frisius, a man with few peers as mathematician and physician, in the hope of seeing some bones.We went to the place where-- to the great advantage of students-- all who have suffered the death penalty are displayed by the public highway for the benefit of the rustics.And there I came upon a skeleton like that of the brigand, which Galen records having seen.The birds had stripped the flesh from Galen's one, and I think they had picked this one clean as well.For a year ago, his body had been merely charred, and as it were, toasted over a straw fire and tied to his stake.He had provided the birds with such a tasty meal that the bones were completely bare and bound together solely by the ligaments, with only the origins and insertions of the muscles preserved.This does not normally happen in the case of people who've been hanged.Despite a popular impression to the contrary, the birds normally peck away nothing but the eyes, because the skin is so thick.And as the skin remains intact, the bones decay inside and are completely useless for teaching purposes.This skeleton was completely dry and completely clean, and I examined it carefully, determined not to lose such an unexpected and long-sought opportunity.With Gemma's help, I climbed the stake and pulled away a femur from the hip bone.And when I pulled at the upper limbs, the arms and hands came away, bringing with them the scapulae.The fingers of one hand were missing, together with both patellae and one foot.I took the legs and arms home in several secret journeys, leaving the trunk and head.The thorax was tied with a chain high up.And in order to secure it, I allowed myself to be shut outside the city at nightfall.So keen and eager was I to obtain these bones, that I did not flinch from going at midnight, amongst all those corpses, and pulling down what I wanted.I had to climb the stake without any assistance, and it took a great deal of effort and hard work.Having pulled down the bones, I took them away a certain distance, and hid them in a secret place.And brought them home bit by bit the next day, through another of the city gates.When I started to cut through the ligaments, they were so hard that they resisted all my efforts, and I was compelled to soften them in boiling water.In order to achieve what I wanted, I eventually seethed all the bones in secret in this way.And having cleaned them, I built up the skeleton, which is still preserved in Louvain at the home of my very good friend, Gisbertus Carbo,'-- carbohydrates? -- 'a noted physician skilled in a variety of disciplines and my fellow student from childhood.I prepared the skeleton so quickly, supplying the missing hand and foot and patellae with considerable difficulty from another source, that everyone was convinced I had brought it from Paris, in order to avoid any suspicion of body snatching.The governor of that city'-- Paris-- 'was indeed very well disposed toward medical students being happy to supply a corpse on request.He had a considerable knowledge of anatomy himself, and always attended my anatomical demonstrations there.'So you can see that being an anatomy press-- professor was a slightly different occupation than it is now.And the lengths that a student had to go through to actually see specimens of human anatomy.So when was this?This was the sixteenth century.This was 500 years ago.And, here are some of the images.You've seen some of these.So notice how the body is displayed in kind of these life-like forms, rather than anatomical position.So who was making these woodblock prints?Artists.They had a different take on the body.So, here is an example of an error that Galen found.Excuse me-- that Vaselius found.This was a misrepresentation of human anatomy.That Galen had promulgated for 800 years, from studying apes, rather than human.So what's the problem here?And obviously the clavicle isn't swung laterally.But that's just-- show us this-- this anatomy.Okay.So hopefully you've written down here 'rectus abdominis.'Oh yeah.Rectus abdominis, we know, attaches here on the costal cartilages, and on the xiphoid process.So apparently in the primate that Galen looked at, he observed something that looked more like that.So.There was an in-- rebirth of the spirit of inquiry in the Renaissance.So if you were a scholar, or a rich person, and you didn't have the internet, where did you go to learn cool stuff?Well, you went to a public anatomy dissection.So there-- were staged at universities of the time.Major universities.Public spectacles.In January.When it was chilly.And there were actual buildings constructed, called 'anatomy theaters,' in which there would be a dissection and a lecture from a learned anatomy professor, talking about philosophy of how the body worked, because they didn't know how it worked at this point.Leonardo thought the nerves were hollow so that your animal spirit could flow through them and innervate your muscles.They didn't know physiology at the time.So there would be philosophical discussions, trying to fit theology concepts of how the universe worked onto the anatomy that was observed.So here are some examples.In Padua, there's an anatomy theater, and you can see how people would stand around the edges, and watch and listen to this.And also in Bologna, here's another one.So these-- these still exist.Both of these were at universities at the time.Do we do anything like this today?And if you've been to a BODY WORLDS exhibit, you know, still, there's that 'isn't-the-body-cool' kind of a sense of, 'Let's put the dissected body into a museum and look at it.'So, we knew gross anatomical structures.Can see with the naked eye.By the middle of the sixteenth century; that's Vaselius.Fifteen-- middle of the 1500s.Uh, so, our illustrations are getting better.Vaselius' were wood blocks, but a technique of copper engraving came along.So now the drawings could be reproduced, and they could be reproduced in great detail.We had the printing press.We were actually looking at nature, rather than imagining nature as a source of information.But, we didn't know anything yet about intellectual property rights.So, you could take Vesalius' book and just copy it, plagiarize it.You can translate it into another language.And here we have a dramatist translating it.Don't know if that dramatist knew anything about anatomy when doing that.So, a great deal of excitement about sharing these ideas about anatomy.And as we move into the eighteenth century, you can see that depictions of anatomy are still very much related to the human body in movement.Here's a tricky one with a mirror, showing an exploded view.Oh-- speaking of an exploded view, Leonardo was studying, uh, architecture at the same time he was studying anatomy.So he was the first one to section a skull, and show us a skull in different planes.He was the first one to explode and to open up a joint, and show us that.So his scientific mind-- he was applying what he had learned from architecture and mechanics to his study of anatomy.Okay.So we can attribute this-- this type of multiple viewpoint-- viewpoints to Leonardo's work.Here's a nice painting by Rembrandt in the seventeenth century, showing a dignitary, um, demonstrating anatomy to others.A Dr. Tulp.But, who were these bodies that were getting dissected?Still, this was criminals.This was poor people.This were people whose bodies were-- died without being claimed in hospitals.Anatomy was not something that was aspired to.Being anatomized was thinking of a punishment.And you can see that, here.And there's the professor not doing the hands-on work in this image.Number of the day.The number of the day is 1543.One thousand, 500, 43.That is the year that Vesalius published his book.1543.Okay.So, if there's not a supply of corpses, how do you, as a medical student, learn anatomy?So, here we are in England.Henry the Eighth allowed a few people, legally-- a few bodies, legally, into medical education.Again, criminals.This did not satisfy the need of medical students to learn something about anatomy.So thus is born grave robbing.Body snatching.Digging up, resurrecting dead bodies to be sold to medical schools, uh, so that bodies were available for dissection.So you've been to beautiful cemeteries, and often there are fences around particularly-- particular families' vaults.That's from this time.Let's protect our ancestors'-- uh, bodies.So, there're famous cases of murders that were actually committed in order to obtain the high-priced fresh bodies, for example.A famous one was in Scotland.This Robert Knox, uh, had a proprietary medical school.So he's shoving 300 students a year through his medical school.He needs a lot of bodies.And so a couple of individuals, Burke and Hare, who are-- owned a boarding house, uh, supplied him with some individuals.But, if you passed out from drinking too much, you might not have picked a good place to do that.Burke and Hare might have helped themselves to your death so that they could sell your body.So, Burke actually was hanged, and then his body was dissected, just to rub it home, that this was a really bad thing he had done.It happened in America, not just over there.There were resurrectionists in this country as well.And there actually was a big riot in New York City in the 1800s, protesting, uh, this practice.So sometimes, in order to get into medical school, your tuition was bringing a body with you.Alright?So there was a lot of angst about where these bodies were gonna come from, for dissection.And a black market, unfortunately, for obtaining them.So guess who figured out that there needed to be a legal way to obtain bodies.Our country.And in fact, Massachusetts was the first one-- the first state to legalize anatomy, and it was followed around the world by others.So 1831 was Massachusetts' first law, but body snatching continued.So, when was the University of Michigan founded?1817?Two hundred years ago?And was there a medical school at the University of Michigan?Uh-huh.So, was there body snatching here?Uh-huh.So, I have put a link for you in the module.You can read about, um, what went on here at Michigan related to body snatching, and I think that's related to this question right here, so, uh, anyway, you can just skip ahead and answer that.Read about your university in that link.It doesn't take long, and it's interesting.Okay.So of course, you have all checked the medical school.Okay, so what did medical school look like back then?Well, mostly men.Mostly men in shirts and ties.Hate to think what that laundry looked like.And, uh, and I'm doing some cade-- dissection on a wooden table, not the nice stainless steel ones that we have.Now, this was certainly not something a lovely young woman would do.And so, we get our first woman medical graduate, um, in the mid-nineteenth century in-- in New York.And there's a question.Okay, so we are 150 years out at this point.So what has happened since then?Um, we had-- we've seen Vesalius' text.We've seen drawings.But along comes Grey, of the original 'Grey's Anatomy' fame.And he published a textbook that really-- where he used dissections-- Vesalius used dissections too-- but he's really illustrating in a different way, structures, than what you've seen before.So we don't have lovely body positions, now.We just have, 'Focus on this.'These drawings are really designed to help you in the dissection room, where you're focused on a particular region.So 'Grey's Anatomy' has been around since the middle of the nineteenth century.Uh, Grant followed up.You can still buy Grant's 'Atlas of Anatomy,' first published in 1943.This is the one I used when I dissected, in graduate school.And he even went a step further.He took photographs, and then these photographs were used as the basis for the drawings.And you get a different sensibility here, because of that technique.So while we're here, what do we see?Here's the nice extensor hood, or the extensor expansion of the long finger flexor tendons.And here you can see that palmar aponeurosis that palmaris longus attaches too.So, nobody has yet made an atlas of cross-sectional anatomy.Why would they?We-- I mean, we have Leonardo doing some dissections to try to give a sense of the three-dimensional relationship of muscles.But the first book of cross-sectional anatomy, late nineteenth century, was based on frozen sections of a child.Now, why is that?Was there-- were there were their freezers in 1880?Probably you needed an ice house to freeze a small body, child.Nice, small, workable size.Frozen then sliced, and then drawings made.Okay, so that's at the beginning of the twentieth century.It's the first time we're getting books dedicated to cross-sectional anatomy.When I was in graduate school, plastination didn't exist yet.So whole cadavers were, uh, plastic was poured around them, and then they were sectioned, and-- so they were encased in plastic.That's what I looked at, for cross-sectional anatomy, um, in graduate school.And then, when I was in graduate school, new imaging becomes available, right?For the first time, we've got CTs and ultrasound images.MRIs are getting invented at this point, so we can look inside the body without destroying it.For the first time, late twentieth century.We can make these images, but how's a physician supposed to know what's what?You know how hard it is to look at cross sections.How are they supposed to learn it?So now, there's a demand to start learning cross-sectional anatomy, because for the first time, we can image inside a body.So plastination is invented.This is what you've handled in the-- in the lab, by a German, Gunther von Hagens.And with plastination, the actual organic matter is replaced with plastic, rather than just embedding a cadaver in plastic, so that you can handle them even without gloves, as you've done in the lab.And some of you have had the treat of seeing some of these beautiful dissections, inspired by Vesalius, actually.Okay, so now, we not only can image the body, but we can make virtual anatomy.With-- you've seen that in the Anatomoge table.If you have a hollow lens, you can actually look at a 3-D representation-- virtual representation of the human body.So the first data set actually, in the University of Michigan, was involved with this.Was the year my daughter was born, in 1988.So, several universities-- including the University of Michigan and NIH-- got together and made-- um, uh, took an individual who, uh, was on death row.And immediately after his death, he was frozen-- his body was frozen and sectioned.So there was the physical slice of his body-- had physical slices of his body, head to toe.He was also scanned with a CT scan and MRI.So now we have multiple modalities that could be put together.And that data set, it was the first one that was publicly available.And actually some of the apps you might look at on your iPad or iPhone might use this data set.Since that time, there are some propriety-- proprietary data sets that have been created, and there is a female data set that has been added to this Visible Human Project out there.This is late twentieth century.So this is where you are.And you're going forward with your anatomy in the future.You're probably going to have access to really nice 3-D virtual anatomy to work with.You'll have to make the decision yourself.Do you need to touch it?Do you need to see it in 3-D?Or are these 3-D prer-- representations gonna be adequate?As you go forward in your careers, that's gonna be an interesting question that I am sure you are all gonna be up against.If you need some post-semester laughing, this is the book for you.This is really funny.This is book called 'Stiff.'It's about all of the uses of cadavers, now.If features the plastination lab at U of M, which is since closed.It features a lab at Wayne State with cadavers used as crash test dummies.Anyway.It's really funny.And there's a little excerpt of it that's also available for you in the module, so.Don't overlook that.That's it for the course.We've talked about what's gonna be on that exam already.It's been a wild ride this semester, with GradeCraft.Thank you for seeing it through to the end, and good luck with everything that you have to get through in the next week or two.I'll see you on Monday, or on Wednesday the 25th.