Alrighty, everybody.Let's get started.Looks like I could have booked a table at Starbucks for our class this morning, since we're a teeny-tiny group.But, let me say to you: this is the fruits-of-your-labors day, because this is when we're going to apply all of the knowledge that you have gained about muscles to understanding human movement.Which is basically what this whole thing is about.So let's talk about that.You will be able to describe the steps that you need to determine muscle action.So what is muscle action?That is-- is a muscle acting concentrically, eccentrically, or isometrically to control the movement that we're interested in.So we've talked about what 'eccentric' and 'concentric' means, earlier.But today, we're gonna work with that, totally.And so, the first step we need to do is to figure out how do we know if a muscle is active?In the real world, you would slap on some EMG, electromyography-- electrodes to detect that electrical activity at the millivolt level, that muscles-- when they're active-- emanate.But we don't have access to EMG data, so we're going to have to use an informed guess to determine what muscles are active.Once we know that, we can tell if that muscle would be lengthening or shortening while active, because of the joint movements.And then we can answer the question.So that's the job of the day.So.Let's zoom out and think about body movement and what controls it.We have been living in this fictitious world in Movement Science 230 that muscles are the only things that generate force and torque that act on the body.But of course, in the real world, there are other forces like the force of the ground.Under my-- pressing up against my feet.We call those 'contact forces.'Fluid forces.I'm moving through an atmosphere.If I was moving through water, the water would exert a force on my body.Gravity, of course, is important for us.In the International Space Station, not so much.And inertial forces are forces that are generated because the body is in motion.So, all those forces act on the joints of the body, caused torques, and what is the result is 'F=ma', or angular acceleration as a result of those torques in the rotational movement world.So actually, what muscles do is not cause movement but rat-- rather, cause acceleration.So, you're gonna hear me use the term, 'tendency to cause a movement,' because the muscles are generating torque, which are creating angular acceleration.Which may or may not be what we observe as movement.Now, here's my-- some of the 'torques equals i alpha moment of inertia times angular acceleration.'But, notice the sum term: muscles are just one of the torques actually acting on the body.So if the muscle torque is bigger and dominates this, some term, then muscle torque will cause the angular acceleration in the direction we would expect.That is, an elbow flexor muscle creating elbow flexor torque would accelerate the elbow in the flexion direction.But, if some of those other torques that are acting are greater than the muscle torque, the movement's actually gonna be in the other direction.The acceleration is gonna be in the other direction.If muscle torque is less than gravity, then acceleration will be in the direction of gravity torque, and the joint will actually move in the opposite direction that we might expect from muscle acting.So that's the physics that we're dealing with.And let's see how it plays out in terms of muscle action.So, here we go.Here are a whole bunch of words, and we're going to be using these words all day long.All hour long.Concentric action.Okay.Muscle-- a muscle will behave-- will control movement concentrically.That means it will shorten while it's active.If the muscle torque is greater than all the other torques.So the net joined angular acceleration is in the same direction of muscle torque.When I pick up this pencil case, my elb-- gravity wants to-- gravity is pulling downward, trying to extend my elbow.But my biceps torque is big.Bigger than gravity torque.So I succeed in generating angular acceleration in the flexion direction.And I win.Okay.What about eccentric action?Why would muscles ever be turned on if they're lengthening?Well, because I want to set this pencil case down gently.I don't want to flop it onto the table.I wanna control the placement onto the tabletop.So I turn on my biceps to counteract gravitational torque, so I can control the lowering of this object onto the tabletop.Now.Are there any times when I would, uh, want to have my muscles work in the same direction of gravity?Yes!When I want to move my elbow faster than gravity would move it, and make a big point and slap this table, I want to add in my triceps extensor torque to gravity's acceleration.To actually move faster, even, than gravity would have me move.And of course, I am now using biceps flexor torque in an isometric way.Biceps is acting isometrically because I'm holding my elbow in this flexed position.So I'm exactly counteract-- acting the gravitational torque that wants to extend my gravity-- extend my forearm-- extend my elbow to hold my joint in this one position.Uh, so many words.So here's what we're gonna do today.Identify the joint movement.Elbow flexion.Identify the direction of the external joint load.What would gravity want to do to my elbow when I'm doing this movement of elbow flexion?Gravity's gonna wanna extend it.So then, my 230 rule will be that muscles turn on to counteract gravity.I don't have my EMG electrodes to tell me which muscle turns on in this movement.I'm going to use my understanding and application of this rule to say, 'Well, gravity wants to extend my elbow, so if I wanna flex it, I better turn on a flexor.I must make flexor torque.'Then I think about what makes flexor torque.Easy.Elbow flexors only make flexor torque.And the I can compare, hmm, muscle elbow flexors are active.Because the elbow is flexing, the elbow flexors are shortening.Therefore, the elbow flexors are shortening and active.Concentric action of any of the elbow flexes are-- are what's controlling this movement.Now, if the movement is slowly lowering the pencil case to the table, and I'm moving slower than gravity, gravity wants to quickly extend my elbow.I want to move slower than gravity, so I turn on the opposite muscle.And in this case, the elbow flexors are lengthening during, um, el-- they're active, and they're lengthening.So when I slowly lower this pencil case, it's eccentric action of the elbow flexors that are controlling the movement.And they're acting eccentrically.So, here we go.What the knee muscle action is needed to stand up?And we'll watch this 'former-Movement-Science-student-turned-physical-therapist-in-her-grown-up-life' get up out of the chair.And so, our question is: what is the name of the movement at the knee?That's our first step.And the movement at the knee is: looks like extension to me, to get out of the chair.And so, during knee extension, we know that the knee extensor muscles are shortening.By definition.During extension, the flexors are-- the extensors are shortening, and the knee flexors are lengthening.Because the joint is moving in extension, we know that.What we don't know yet is: which muscle group is turned on during this task?And so we will consider what the external torque load is, which is: gravity wants to keep her in the chair.Gravity wants to flex her knees.So we're just intuiting our way to understand what gravity would do in the task.And so, when standing up out of the chair, gravity is exerting a torque that tends to flex the knee.A flexor torque; gravity-extending flexor torque.And, we're only gonna be considering gravity right-- right now in our exercises, in 230.So, the next step is to determine what muscle torque might be acting during this task, and we apply the '230' rule, which is, 'Muscles counteract gravity.'So if gravity is tending to flex her knees, that means that we need a muscle torque to extend her knees opposite-- acting opposite to gravity.And so, that's shown here.Her muscles are making an extensor torque around the knee to counteract gravity.Acting in the opposite direction to gravity.Okay, so muscles control movement by counteracting external torques.In this case, gravity.And so, for our simplistic view, right now, we're going to say that muscle-- we're gonna assign muscle-- we're going to activate muscles that are opposite in direction to the gravity torque.And then we're gonna consider, well, what makes extensive torque at the knee?And of course, that's the knee extensors.And they're tending to accelerate this knee into extension.That's the direction of the arrow.And so we know that the knee extensor muscles make knee extensor torque.We know that the knee extensors are acting during knee extension, so we can say the knee extensors are acting concentrically.Shortening-- active and shortening.And that's how-- this is how we determine that.We remember that the movement direction, the green arrow, is extension.We see that the muscle torque is extensor muscle torque.It's in the same direction.So we know that these knee extensors are shortening.Which is what these words, and these colors, are saying.Okay.So to sum that up, when muscle torque is greater than gravitational torque, then the movement is gonna be in the direction of muscle torque.We're gonna be acting against gravity, and that's concentric action.The muscle torque and the movement torque are in the same direction.Muscle is always gonna be opposite to gravity in our-- in our rule here.But in the other case, when the joint is moving the opposite direction, elbow extension-- in this case, the muscle torque and the movement direction are opposite.Which means that that muscle will be getting longer while it is active and generating torque, and that's eccentric action.So the movement is in the direction of gravity, with gravity, but it's slower than gravity in this case.Muscles are acting to control by slowing down what the movement would be if just gravity acted.And, what happens when muscle torque is exactly equal to gravitational torque?Isometric action.Joint isn't moving, no muscles are changing length, so we have isometric action.Alrighty.Uh, with eccentric muscle action, gravity is causing the movement.So why does the brain activate movement at all?Well, in this case, the muscles are, uh, not leaving control of movement-- well, here.I hope this doesn't hurt.When gravity-- if gravity put me-- sat me down, I'd fall into a chair.That's not how we wanna do stuff, right?We wanna control movement.So actually, muscles act eccentrically very often.Confusing.Weird.Strange.But thus is the complexity of human movement.Okay.Do muscles and gravity ever act in the same direction?Yes, that was my demonstration of, if you are playing drums, for example, you're gonna want to accelerate faster than what gravity would have you do.So in that case, gravity and muscles would act together.We're gonna set that notion aside, and be considering 'slower than gravity' for the rest of the day.Okay.And I've said all this.Alright.So here we go.Now, we got her out of the chair.How do we sit her back down into the chair?And here we go.We look at it Jody sitting down.Look at that biceps femoris tendon right there.Beautiful head of the fibula.Gorgeous.Always got surface anatomy on my mind.What is the direction of movement at the knee?What's that-- what is that movement when you sit down into a chair?We would call that 'knee flexion.'And what is gravity trying to do as she sits down into the chair?Gravity is trying to flex her knee.And so, direction of knee muscle torque, by our rules in 230, must be opposite.So we determine that knee extensor muscle torque is necessary to control that movement.So, what is the knee muscle action during sitting?Her knee will be flexing while knee extensors are active.We see that the muscles are acting in the direction opposite to gravity, and-- oops!And so what is our conclusion?We conclude that knee extensors are active while the knee is flexing, so the knee extensors must be acting eccentrically.They're lengthening while active.So.If you have exercised really hard, and you have sore quads, it hurts when you sit down, and when you stand up.You're using the same muscle group both directions.Okay.So, now it's time to go to work.Here's our first activity.What is the elbow muscle action when moving from position one to position two?So, think through those rules.If you follow the four steps, you never go wrong.What is the movement?What would gravity do?Muscles act-- which muscles are active?The ones opposite to gravity.Compare movement direction and, uh, muscle torque direction to answer the question.And you have decided that this is flexors acting concentrically.Very good.Flexion.Gravity wants to extend, therefore, the flexors are on.Flexors are on during flexion, so the flexors are shortening while active.That's concentric.Now.We're gonna go from position three to four.What's the movement?What would gravity do?What muscle torque is needed to control the movement?And are the muscles in the direction of that muscle torque lengthening or shortening during that task?I'll demo in this direction, so you guys can see, if you like.And you have-- ooh.Flexors acting eccentrically, or extensors acting eccentrically.That's interesting.So, the joint is still flexing.But gravity wants to flex the elbow even more, so I have to turn on the extensors.The extensors lengthen during flexion, so the extensors are active, and they are lengthening to control this movement, so the answer is 'd.'Okay.Here he is, and he is doing something at his shoulder during this task.And what would that be?What's the movement?What's the gravity direction?What's the muscle torque direction?Is muscle torque in the same direction or in opposite direction of movement?Those four questions; ask them every time.You will never get the wrong answer.If you answer each of the four parts correctly.When you've done all of that, consider what it would feel like to do this movement.And if you would feel it in the same place as the muscle you just said might be active.Look at this medial gastroc right here.And, you have decided... good.Extensors acting concentrically.He is extending his glenohumeral joint.Gravity sure wants to flex it.So the extensors must be active, opposite to gravity.And extensors are acting while the joint is extending.They're shortening, so we got 'concentric.'Which of the following muscles does not act concentrically to control the shoulder movement-- movement?What?Oh, oh, okay.I get it.I get it.So in the movement that we just saw-- and we said it was extensors acting concentrically-- I guess what I'm asking here in a convoluted-- convoluted way is: which of the following muscles is not a shoulder extensor?That's what I'm asking here.Do we remember anything about the shoulder muscles?There's our flexor, right there.So this muscle is not an extensor.Please note: you might get a question like this on the last exam.So the last exam will cover the details of the muscles that control the knee and the ankle and the toes.But, I-- it also is gonna cover the function of any muscle.So it would be fair for me to ask a question like this on the last exam, even though these shoulder muscles were not included specifically in-- in the list that-- the modules, for the last one.That's what I mean by, 'all muscle function,' is that you might have to answer a question like this on the last exam.What is the number of the day?Sadly, I'm gonna say number two.Not number one.But number two, which is fabulous anyway.Okay.Two, two, two.Ooh.Except for-- double two.Alrighty.Um, so.Let's consider now, action of the-- of muscles that control the scapula.And you might guess what muscle we're gonna be looking at here.So let's consider this muscle during a push-up.So we're seeing that muscle, which hopefully you are 'thought bubble, saying the name of that muscle.'And you're seeing what it's doing.Is it lengthening or shortening during this task?And so, what muscle action is needed to control this movement of the scapula?So I'm just gonna keep showing this video, because you have to figure out what this motion of the scapula is.Then you have to figure out what you think gravity would be trying to do to the scapula during this task.And I'm just gonna keep playing it while you're thinking.Maybe I need to play it again.So get your choices in, and let's talk about this one.This one's gonna need some discussion.Okay.So we think it's protractors acting concentrically.And I suspect you're right.So what we see, of course, is serratus anterior shortening.We know that the function of serratus anterior is to protract that-- the scapula.It's pulling the scapula away from the spine, from the midline, right?So if you were at the top of this push-up, and you just relaxed, your scapulae would retract, right?You really need to push to protract.So gravity wants to retract your scapula.That's the part that's a little bit hard to imagine here.And so, gravity wants to retract.That means we need to turn on protractors.The movement is protraction of those scapulae, so it's a concentric action.Good work.Here's a guy.We call this a 'mid-century guy,' meaning 'mid-twentieth century.'Doesn't he look 'mid-century'?And he's doing this movement.And the question is about the upper left, not the return movement down here in the bottom right.So, what is the muscle action needed to control this movement, going from this position to this position?Alright.And you have decided that it is supraspinatus acting concentrically.And you are so right.So the movement is abduction, of the glenohumeral joint.For sure, we know gravity wants to adduct, so we need to turn on muscles opposite to gravity.We need to turn on the abductors.The abductors shorten during the movement 'abduction,' so we know it's concentric.But concentric action of what?And we have two choices, basically, one of which is supraspinatus.And what's the other choice?What's the other abductor?We've only got two on our list.Middle deltoid.I'll help you.What is true regarding abductor muscles?This is one of those questions that you save until last on the exam, 'cause it's hard.You have to think through it.Okay.So.It is Monday, April 16th.You have arrived in this room to take the last exam.You're completely fatigued.Your head is full of so much stuff.And you see this question and you lose hope.Well, here's what I hope you do.I hope you say, 'Abductor muscles.Abductor muscles can never generate adductor torque, under any circumstance, so I'm not even gonna think about 'b' and 'd.'I just know that about abductor muscles.They can never make adductor torque.'And so then, I'm left with 'generate abductor torque when acting concentrically during adduction.'Well, during adduction, an abductor is lengthening.That doesn't make sense.So it must be 'c.'So in other words, what I want you to do is to think.Not get lost in the words.Just-- it's obvious, if you apply a few simple ideas.Alright.So now, we've got our mid-century guy doing this movement.Lowering the barbell from this position to this position, carefully controlling the barbell while he's doing it.He does not wish to bruise his thighs or hyperextend his knees.So.How will he do this task?He will do the task by activating his flexors.And they are lengthening while lowering this barbell.And so it's eccentric action of the elbow flexors.You're absolutely correct.We've talked about the knee joint when standing up.Let's talk about the hip joint.What's going on-- how are you controlling action at the hip when standing up out of a chair?Gosh, he looks tired.He or she.I can't tell.Flip about and let me see that subpubic arch width, and then maybe we'd know if it's a 'he' or a 'she.'Alrighty.So, uh-- oh.We have what going on, when this entity is standing up?This, 'how-will-I-get-through-the-end-of-the-semester'?And we've got... a big vote for extensors concentric.That is correct.The hip joint is extending.Gravity wants to keep the hip flexed in the chair, so we're gonna turn on muscles that are opposite to gravity.That would be the hip extensors.Hip extensors shorten as we're looking at gluteus maximus there, during hip extension, so it's concentric action of the hip extensors.Now we have our mid-century fella in the PT clinic, and he is doing this task.The 'weight boot' task.And so, um, what's going on at the knee?And you have to decided that the knee extensors are acting eccentrically here.Yeah.Your-- your physical therapist is saying, 'Slowly lower the weight.'So, gravity wants to flex the knee.You are slowly lowering your-- the weight, by flexing your knee.So you have to turn on the muscles opposite to gravity.That's the extensors.The extensors are active.They're generating extensor torque to counteract gravity.And they are lengthening as the knee flexes.So you are working in the same muscle group no matter which way the joint is moving, in this case.You're getting strengthening benefit.You're engaging the same muscles in both directions on this task.Ooh, here's another one.Can we generalize about muscle function?Okay.I agree.Muscles that act eccentrically during flexion.That means muscles that happened to be active and lengthening during flexion are extensors.True.Muscles that act concentrically during flexion.That means they must be shortening during flexion, whether they're on or off, are flexors.So, I'm-- I'm there.With you.We're gonna consider this movement.This is a heel-raised task, made harder by bearing a weight-- an added weight-- during the task.So why do you do this in the gym?What muscles are you trying to turn on and make stronger?What muscles are you loading when you do this task?So you have to turn them on.And here we go.You're so correct.So, the movement here is plantar flexion.To get that heel off the bar there, off the beam, off the platform, you need to do plantar flexion.Obviously, this is against gravity.Gravity wants to keep you dorsiflexed, or even dorsiflex you more, so you have to turn on plantar flexors.Plantar flexors shorten during plantar flexion, so we know it's concentric action of the plantar flexors.And we know the only plantar flexor we see in this list is tibialis anterior.Good work.Alright.So now what happens when he lowers his heels?And he wants to lower slowly, control this movement, so he is going to continue to use his plantar flexors.But this time they're lengthening.Gravity wants to pull that ankle into dorsiflexion.That's scary with all that weight, so he wants to slowly-- he wants to control the rate of that dorsiflexion, move slower than gravity.So he's gonna turn on the plantar flexors.Plantar flexors are active while the joint is dorsiflexing, so the plantar flexors are lengthening.That's eccentric.Good work.Uh, when you lower yourself from a s-- into a squat from a standing position, which is true?Alrighty.Here we go.What do you think?Either 'a' or 'd.'I am so happy that half of you were confused.Because this means we're gonna clear it up right now, never to fall into this trap again.So.When you lower yourself into a squat from a standing position, I have knee flexion.I know gravity wants to flex my knees.I'm lowering slowly, so I'm gonna counteract gravity.I'm gonna turn on my extensors.My extensors are acting eccentrically, 'a'.And in this case, I'm just talking about the vasti muscles.So I'm not talking about hip, or ankle.Just knee.So I know that 'one' is correct.But what's happening on the other side of the joint?Biceps femoris, a knee flexor-- and only a knee flexor-- is shortening.True.Because the joint is flexing, but it is not turned on.It is shortening, but it is not acting concentrically because it has not been activated.We aren't making torque.The brain is not requesting flexor knee torque.Gravity is providing flexor knee torque.So it's quiet.It is shortening.But it's not turned on by the brain.So that's why the answer is 'a,' and not 'c.'Be careful.When you see 'concentric' and 'eccentric,' remember that there is-- it's necessary that the muscles must be activated, must be making torque.Which means you have to do this counteracting gravity rule to find out if it's active or not.You know already whether it's lengthening or shortening.But that's not the same thing as 'concentric' and 'eccentric.'So just a heads-up on that.Uh, sit-up.What's happening in control of a sit-up here?It looks male.That's a pubic arch there.It looks narrow.I'm gonna say this is a-- this is a male.And so, what's happening in his spine?Where-- what is the muscle action at the neck during this movement?The neck?I know when I do sit-ups, I try to do them with my neck muscles.But in fact, it's not gonna help those abdominals, where the real work needs to be done.Ooh, ooh, I see neck muscle names here.Yikes.Again, fair for the last exam.What are we looking at there, for a neck muscle?We're looking at sternocleidomastoid, I believe.Okay, so what have you decided?I hope you have decided that you need a neck flexor.Gravity wants to leave the head on the ground, which would be extension.So you need a neck-- you need neck flexor torque while the neck is flexing.So you need concentric action of some neck flexor.Now, which one of these muscles is a flexor?Do you remember talking about longus coli, when we were talking anterior, or posterior?That's all you need to remember.If it's anterior, it's a flexor, and look at that.You do remember that.I am so impressed.Um, alright.Here, we have another issue.Gravity does not come into play in this task.This is a rotation movement.Gravity has the same effect, no matter which way he is rotating.So, you're gonna have to answer this question as if there are no forces acting, except gravity.I don't think we need to consider resistance against air as very much of a external resistance load.So I'm gonna ask you to answer this question by striking out any muscle torque-- er, excuse me.Any force acting-- the only force in the universe is muscle, when he's doing this task.This is the only thing he needs to do.And now, we can see peroneus longus.Look at that!Lateral compartment, passing posterior to the lateral malleolus.We can see his soleus, and his lateral gastroc head.Okay.When you see something like this, take a deep breath.Step through it.What do you know-- uh, the-- the key thing is, which way-- direction is he rotating?Have we decided he's rotating right?That's the first step.Get the movement right.He's rotating to his right.So how does somebody rotate to the right?They turn on right ipsilateral rotators, and they turn on left contralateral rotators.Now, here's the rub.Are the right ipsilateral rotators shortening?Check.Are the left contralateral rotators shortening?Yes,So it's concentric action of right ipsilaterals.So that leaves me with 'c' and 'a,' and then the left contralaterals are shortening also.Okay.So again, so happy to see that half of you, uh, can get this cleared up right now.The contralateral rotators shorten.That's the confusing, strange thing about contralateral rotators.The left contralateral rotators shorten when you rotate to the right.By definition of their muscle function, they shorten in the direction of their function.So if they're a contralateral rotator, they're shortening.When the direction of rotation is in the direction of the opposite side of the body.Okay, tuck that thought away.Now the tough, tough, tough thing is gonna be: which muscles are contralateral rotators, and which muscles are ipsilateral rotators.And, I'm gonna give you the opportunity to see if you remember anything about that.So we're looking here for: can you name one contralateral rotator, or two contralateral rotators?Can you name an ipsilateral rotator?Do you have any memory of this?Take a pass through this before the last exam, because this is fair game.Stay calm when you get hit a question like this, and just take it slow and obvious.Apply the basic rules, and you will end up in the right place.And... we're still thinking of muscle names.We're still thinking of muscle names.We don't-- you know two.You know the internal and external oblique, right?And there they are.Internal and external oblique.Abdominals; not enough finesse there.So this is just a heads-up, right?To remember some of that rotation function.Some of the muscles.The big ones, right?The important ones.Oh, here's a head-scratcher.What's going on here?And believe me, the hardest part of this one is what is the movement this person is doing, from this position to this position?And in order to answer that, keep going in that direction, and you'll get into territory where you recognize immediately what the movement is.And then take it from there.Okay, what have we got?Uh, mostly we have extensors acting concentrically.Woohoo!Okay, let's talk through this.This movement is flexion of the glenohumeral joint.Gravity clearly wants to hyperextend that joint, so we're gonna turn on the flexors, and they're acting-- extensors acting concentrically.Did I say that wrong?Movement is flexion.Gravity wants to extend.So the flexors are acting concentrically during this task, so I think I have the wrong answer there.Ay yi yi.Can you name a muscle that is shortening during this task?Okay, is there anything wrong with my logic here?This is clearly flexion.Gravity wants to extend, so the flexors have to be on.So I just had incorrectly given the wrong check mark in the right place.We've got flexors acting concentrically, during this task.We're good with that.What, what, what, what?Yeah.Oh, are you thinking about pectoralis major?Uh, uh, you are flexing.Yeah.I mean, the triceps are-- the triceps long head-- if you're in a hyperextended position, I think triceps might reverse its function.Yeah.So it's a little bit complicated.When triceps short-- wait.Yeah, because-- yes.Wow.I-- up here, I look a little confused or foolish up here, which may be the case.I'm fine with that.I just wanna be sure that I'm answering your question correctly.We see that sort of thing with pectoralis major, that depending on where the humerus is, the line of action might-- might change.When you-- when you get past a 90 degree or a 180 degree.Yeah.So-- that subtlety: that's great.It tells me you're thinking-- you're ready for the next level, in all of this.Do you have a question?Yeah.Oh, so what's the answer?Good answer.Uh, let's-- let's make that clear.The correct answer is: the '15.'Yeah.Oh, oh!So I said it wrong!I knew there was something wrong with all of this.I was calling this 'flexion' just now?Thank you.Thank you.I was foolish, and I was wrong.Thank you.And I'm still standing.I knew there was something wrong here.Okay.Thank you.It turns out this movement is not called 'flexion.'This movement is called 'extension.'And, um, am I as red as my sweater right now?I might be.Um, so-- so-- thank you, thank you.So we have-- the movement is extension.Gravity wants to go this-a way, and this way would be actually hyperflexion.Okay, I'm seeing some nods.With the world-- the planet spinning the right direction again.Good.Oh, my gosh.I just called this 'flexion.'Oh, my gosh.Uh, but it's extension.So.Let's go back in.Let's try this all over again.Let's just back up five minutes.Okay.So, we have a movement of extension.Gravity wants to flex.Therefore, we turn on the extensors.That's the question about the extensors.And so the extensors are acting concentrically.Ahh.Okay.See what can happen?See what can happen?You get the movement wrong, and it all goes to hell, right?Okay, so.The world is good again.And, do we know any muscle that might be a shoulder extensor, acting concentrically during this movement of shoulder extension?That's not what it says?What muscle is active and shortening during this movement?Oh, thank you.I have lost my footing.So I think I made the bold claim that if you follow the steps, you'll always end up in the right place?With the caveat that you get the answer to each of the steps correct.Do not skip steps.And so you have decided that an extensor might be teres major.I agree.Triceps brachii long head.I agree.Pectoralis minor?Pectoralis minor have anything to do with glenohumeral joint movement?Nope.Goes along for the ride-- or doesn't have direct control of that joint.Pectoralis major, sternal head.Good work.Uh, we'll rethink clavicular head.Serratus anterior does not cross the glenohumeral joint.Okay, so you get the picture.And the moment of blackness.Oh, here's another good one.What is the muscle action at the spine when you do this-- 'the cat'?Is this the 'cat,' in yoga?Ohp, let me-- let me-- she learns.Open the question.Okay.I guess the question now is will I get the answer right, since you seem to be doing well at that.It seems to be: can I do well at that?So, uh, what have we got here?We have a big choice for concentric action of the spine flexors.This is not obvious.So what is the movement?The movement is spine flexion.Gravity wants to keep this belly sagging.Gravity wants to extend and hyperextend the spine.So you're gonna need to turn on the spine flexors to create this movement.So the spine flexors are shortening during this action of spine flexion, so it's concentric, which is what you said.Now, here is where your-- your experience might get in the way of this.When you do this, what is it that you're experiencing?You're experiencing the pleasure of the stretch of your spine extensors.Right?It feels so good to do this because you're enjoying the feeling of stretch.And it doesn't take too much, in terms of it's not hurting.Your abdominals aren't, like, aching when you do a sit-up, 'cause there's not much of a load to put your spine in this, so you forget about the spine flexors.They're doing the work, so you can enjoy this stretch of the extensors.Hmm.Why is this so hard to do?This one is all about getting the movement correct.There is no movement, uh, per se.You're holding this position.But what movement would happen if gravity was acting, and you just relaxed when you were propped up on the right elbow?What is the movement that gravity would-- what-- if only gravity was acting, what would happen to your spine?What's the name of the movement that would happen to your spine?That's the key, to this one.Here's the relationship between his right arm and his spine.Gravity is gonna pull his-- his chest down so that his thorax will be closer to his right.So what is that, in terms of lateral tilt?Try this at home.Do this at home, and-- just to reinforce what we're thinking here.So right away, I'm going to ignore 'b' and 'd,' because it's isometric.He's not moving.The answer must be one of the isometric options.And the question is: left or right lateral flexors?And most of you think right lateral flexors, and most of you are correct.Because his chest would sink into-- his body would sink into a position of left lateral flexion.Do this at home.You'll get it.And then-- so that means we have to turn on the right lateral flexors.And, any clue as to what might make lateral-- right lateral flexion torque?Name a muscle, any muscle, on the right side of the spine.Correct?Lateral flexion is always an ipsilateral situation.Do you remember any of those spine muscles?Okay.Wracked your brain long enough.You've come up with something.What you need is the word, 'right.'Right.A right-sided muscle.Okay.So here's the th-- I'm gonna leave you with a couple of thoughts.Here's a water skier.And if we were to consider, knowing what we know now, what action is controlling this position of his shoulder muscles, we would say that gravity would tend to extend his glenohumeral joint.I think I've learned the name of the movement now.That's what gravity would do.So in our current way of thinking, we would say, 'Oh, he's turned on his shoulder flexors to maintain this position.'But that's not the case, right?Because the force on his upper arm here is resisting, is dealing with the force of this rope.So I am-- I am putting this here to tell you that, uh, what we're doing in here, with this kind of simplistic rule of considering just gravity being the main force that we work against, is-- is true within the confines of Movement Science 230.And it's convenient to really drive home this notion of eccentric and concentric control.But as you move on in your courses, and you begin to understand that the world has more in it than gravitational and muscle forces, how you're gonna answer this question will be different, right?'Cause you'll have to include these other forces.So that's just a peek at what's to come.Uh, next time, we will consider how muscles function during walking.Where we'll be considering a more advanced notion of other muscle-- of other forces acting on the body.And we'll pull in data on muscle activity that we know from EMG recordings.And so we'll consider muscle action in that particular movement task.So that's what's up next.Okay.So, take-away: some of you might feel like, 'I've got this.'You do, if you-- if you're comfortable with these four rules, and you follow them, being sure to get the muscle-- the movement-- right, you'll be good.If you're still a little iffy with it, there's plenty o' practice in the post-class quiz today.There're jillions of practice questions for you.So that's what you need to know, with regards to muscle action, is what we've done here today.Okay.Good work, and I'll see you next time.