For those of you who aren't here-- ooh, I'm very loud.I'll send around a link to the survey, so you can print it out and fill it out yourself.I'll have it in class again on Wednesday.Obviously, I need to hear from you about what you think about GradeCraft.And how it could be changed or improved.We're doing a survey.We're doing a survey this morning.So if you can grab one and fill it out, that would be great.There are several options for turning it in.Easiest one is to leave it behind today.We're doing a survey.Okay, let's give this two more minutes, and then I'll start talking.For those of you coming in, we're doing a survey.So what I'm gonna do with these surveys is scoop them up, and hand them to someone who will type up what you've written and collate your answers.And then when I'm finished grading, I will ask that person to give it to me, so that I can forward move forward, with your suggestions.Okay, let's get started.Last time, what we did was talk about how muscles control movement, acting either concentrically or eccentrically or isometrically.And important in that discussion was us figuring out when the brain might have turned muscles on.Because, of course, we know from movement alone, which muscles might be lengthening or shortening.But we don't know about concentric or eccentric action unless we know if the muscles have been actually activated by the nervous system.So, what we did last time was to come up with a rule, assuming that just gravity was acting besides muscles.And then figuring out which muscles the brain must turn on in order to control movement in a world where the only other force acting is gravity.In the real world, there are other forces besides gravity that muscles might-- that the brain must consider before activating muscles.And so we're gonna talk about the consequences of some of those other forces in control of locomotion.In control of human walking.That's the job today, so we're going to import data gathered using electromyography.That is a way to measure muscle electrical activity during movement, using electrodes.Typically placed on the surface of the body, on the skin, to pick up those electrical signals.Of course, one can implant electrodes into muscles using wire electromyography as well.But we're gonna talk about surface EMG in order to find out how muscles control movement during walking.So here we go.Ooh.I guess we're just gonna consider a question left over from last time.To warm up a little bit.'Muscles that generate extensive torque.'Translate that statement into whether those muscles are flexors or extensors, given that the-- so, these muscles generate extensor torque.And then you can answer the question.If you've just walked in, there is a survey that you can find somewhere, to fill out.Or-- there we go.Okay.First job of the day.Answer this question.And what've we got?You think that muscles that generate extensor torque can act eccentrically during flexion.So what do we know about muscles that generate extensor torque?By definition, they are extensors.The only kind of a muscle that can generate extensor torque is an extensor muscle.So now that we know that we're talking about extensor muscles, we know that extensor muscles can act eccentrically during flexion.If they're turned on-- if they're activated when the joint movement is flexion, they are acting eccentrically.Can extensors act concentrically during flexion?No.Because extensors will be lengthening during flexion.Therefore, if they're activated, they would be acting eccentrically, as 'a' says.Can act eccentrically during extension?No, because extensors shorten during extension, so they never, under any circumstance, could be acting eccentrically.Because they're always going to be shortening, during extension.So that's a little bit of a brain-teaser, that question.The point here is to understand what kind of muscles make extensor torque.And then considering can extensors ever shorten during flexion?No.Can extensors shorten during extension?Yes.Okay.So, that little memory of last week, we're now gonna put aside and start talking about walking.We can't talk about how muscles control movement during walking unless we know what walking is.So walking is repetitive.It's cyclic.It repeats over and over again.So if we know one gait cycle, we know them all.So that's where we're starting out today, is defining what is one gait cycle.And typically, a gait cycle is defined from heel strike to ipsilateral heel strike.And, as shown up here, it's being defined by right heel strike.And then, all of the events when feet touch the ground or leave the ground until the subsequent right heel strike.So during that cycle, the right foot is on the ground, and then the right foot is off the ground until it strikes again.So we talk about a 'stance phase' for that right leg, when the right foot is still on the ground.And a 'swing phase,' when it swings through to the start, the next gait cycle.So, um, what's the other foot doing?Well, this right foot is striking, and then after that, it-- it-- well.It comes flat on the ground.There's a middle of stance, and then heel comes off, toe comes off, and we're swinging.How much of the time do you think in a gait cycle is spent in single support, meaning there's just one leg on the ground at a time?Heel strike, swinging through with the other leg.Now I'm on one leg and swinging through with this one.This is just a guess.Maybe an informed guest-- guess, if you prepared for class.Okay, so let's see what you've got.You are thinking... ooh, it's either 20 percent or 40 percent.And in fact, it's 80 percent.If I add up both, right and left leg.So yes, 40 percent of the gait cycle, I'm standing on my right leg.But 40 percent of the gait set-- cycle, I'm standing on the other leg.So if you add the two 40s up, it's 80.So the '40-percent' people here were-- were good, if I was talking about just one of the legs.Okay.So, let's look at a gait cycle.This is an important one.This is one I need you to know something about.So, we were talking about this right stance phase.So here's right heel contact, and here's the right stance until it's right toe-off.Let's look at what the left leg is doing.The left leg-- at right heel strike, both feet are on the ground.Ten percent later is toe-off of the left leg.I'm swi-- so this is 10 percent.I'm swinging through with my left leg until heel contact.Heel contact of the other leg-- in this case, the left leg, is at 50 percent.When you hear somebody walking down the hall, you hear, 'Click, click, click, click, click.'What you're hearing is heel strikes.And it's even.Fifty percent.Fifty percent.Fifty percent.Fifty percent.But, there is this 10 percent overlap between the two legs when you're walking.If you're a race walker, that overlap time goes to nothing, so that one foot leaves the ground just as the other one strikes.But in normal walking, we've got a 10 percent overlap.So at the start of stance phase, zero percent.At 10 percent, the left comes off.At 50 percent, the left contacts.At 60 percent, the right toe comes off.So I've got 60 percent of this gait cycle spent in stance.Not 50 percent, as you might expect, because there's this overlap.So here's what I need you to know.Zero, 10 percent, 50 percent, 60 percent.One hundred percent.Zero percent: right heel strike.Ten percent: left toe off.Fifty percent: left heel strike.So that leaves me with my right single support being 40 percent.Overlap: 10 percent, here in the middle.Then I have 40percent with just the left leg on the ground, when the right leg is swinging through.Okay.So that's what we call the 'contact events,' or the 'footfall events,' in the gait cycle.So why am I taking you through this?Because we're gonna consider forces that the ground might contribute to what muscles have to do during stance phase.And then we're gonna consider some other forces, inertial, forces that might be act-- that might be important in control of the swing phase.Okay.So here are the joint angles during walking.From zero percent heel strike, here's a red line showing the end of stance at 60 percent.And then, here's swing phase.And what I would like you to do is to tell me: what's happening?Let's see.In particular, positive angles.So, when the angle-- when these curves are going up, getting more positive, what direction is that?Is it flexion?Is it extension?Is it plantar flexion?Is it dorsiflexion?If you came in late and you see one of these, this is a survey I'm asking you to fill out.This is job two of the day.Job one was figuring out what those foot contact events were that define stance and swing.Job two is: what are the joints doing during a gait cycle.And then job three is gonna be: how the-- how are muscles controlling those joint movements.So you have decided hip flexion is positive, knee flexion is positive, and ankle dorsiflexion is positive.And you are so correct.So let's talk about that here.It is labeled for you, so let me just demo.Let's start with the hip.Here I am, at heel contact.Now, what happens?My hip extends.And in fact, we see the curve going negatively, so that's extension of the hip.So, you're correct.Positive is up.Now, what's happening at the knee?I hit the ground, and then my knee softens a little bit.It yields.It flexes a tiny bit, extends, and then flexes 'bigly,' if that's a word, before it extends at the end of swing phase.And then the ankle is confusing, to say the least.Here I am at heel strike.What's the first thing I do?Put my foot flat.That's a movement of plantar flexion.Little bit of plantar flexion, to plant my foot.Then I roll over this planted foot.That's dorsiflexion.Then, push-off.Big, big, big plantar flexion.And then I pick up my foot to swing through.So.Those are the movements.And, let's move on to three: what's controlling that.So here is the hip joint.You see the contact events upstairs there.And I have labeled the movements of the hip for you.Basically, it looks like the hip is basically extending during stance, and flexing during swing.And here are some graphs that show you mean and standard deviation over a whole bunch of people of electrical activity of these muscles.So let's look at gluteus maximus.This is our hip extensor, and what this says is there's a big burst of activity right around when the foot's contacting the ground.Weight's getting loaded onto that lower leg.And then, a little bit of activity.Not much.So it looks like gluteus maximus is active during the length of this bar.So here's the simplified version of that curve over there.It's saying gluteus maximus is active, big peak, about this percentage of the gait cycle.Now, gluteus maximus is an extensor.What is the joint doing?It is extending during that time.So what do we say about gluteus maximus?It's acting concentrically to control joint movement in early stance.'Concentric' is indicated by grey.Let's consider the hip flexors.And, I've shown iliopsoas there.Unfortunately, I don't have the iliopsoas EMG signal for you over there, but it looks like there's a big burst at the-- these flexors need to be active at the end of stance and at the beginning of swing.So what's going on there?Stance.What's-- what's happening here?Gravity is gonna keep wanting me to extend my hip.So I turned on my hip flexor before I'm finished with hip extension, to slow down-- to decelerate that extension, and turn the joint movement around to flexion, so I can pick up my leg.So, the flexor turns on while the joint is still extending to decelerate extension.And then, finally, to accelerate the limb into the flexion direction.So we have iliopsoas acting eccentrically, and then concentrically, around this transition from stance to swing.'Dark' means eccentric.So it's turned on, but the joint movement changes from extension to flexion.So we call the action first 'eccentric' and then 'concentric.'You there?You with me?And here're some little...Now in this demo, little light bulbs go on.This is old technology, but I like this video 'cause the light goes on to tell you when the muscle is activated.And so, we're gonna see him do some little manipulation-- uh, little movements, and then those light bulbs.Okay.So that arrow that's popping up from the ground is showing you the direction of the ground contact forces.The ground reaction forces.That will make more sense to you when you take Movement Science 330.Those are some of the other forces.It turns out that that concept's gonna be really important.Here it comes; the eccentric hip flexor activity.The hip is extending, and those flexors are on.This is eccentric.And then, when we move into-- come on.There're those hip flexors.Okay.So what do you do with that movie?Uh, whatever will help you.Some of you are familiar with ground reaction forces if you have an engineering background already, and these movies will help you to understand the torques.If some of that language is confusing to you, don't bother with it, right?This is an explanation of some of those other forces that are active.So, if you had to say right now what best describes iliopsoas activity during gait, how would you describe it?This is how I'd like you to know muscle activity for the last exam.Not, 'What percentage of the gait cycle does iliopsoas turn on?'But basically, do you know what its action is, and when is it performing those actions.So you have said here that iliopsoas' activity during gait as a hip flexor is to be eccentric, and then concentric.And that's happening at the end of stance and beginning of swing.That's the level I want you to understand this.Okay.So here's a little picture of a walking skeleton, and we can see iliopsoas.And that shows us the hip flexor when it turns on.And now we'll see gluteus maximus, turning on there at the beginning of stance.Heel strike.Heel strike.Okay.So what happens if for some reason you can't turn on your gluteus maximus?You have a paralysis, or some kind of, uh, neuropathy, and you can't generate hip extensive torque with your gluteus maximus, what will your gait cycle look like?And here is a PT student, telling us that.Okay, that's what it looks like.Now.Oops, oops, oops, oops.Off, off, please.Okay.So what-- what has he just shown us?The damage to the nerve, to gluteus maximus.Somebody can't turn it on.So if a person can't generate sufficient gluteus maximus-- it's hip extensor torque, how do they compensate?Let gravity do it.If you hang your center of mass behind your hip joint, gravity is gonna be generating a hip extensor torque so you don't need your musculature.And so, the lurch he's talking about here is an active compensation.So actually, it's gonna be all about the hip flexors, then.Gravity takes care of the hip extensor torque.Now I turn on this-- these flexors to haul this trunk forward for the rest of stance.Okay, so the hip joint's easy.Let's move on to something not quite as easy.The double hump of the knee.The knee has foothills and high country.Right?In stance, there's a little-- a little flexion-extension cycle, and then a great big flexion-extension cycle in swing.So, that's what's shown here.And let's talk first about what the vasti muscles are doing.The uniarticular knee extensors.Big burst right here, at the beginning of stance.And why is that burst occurring?To control this little bit of yield, this little bit of softening of the knee.So we don't wanna slam our knee joint into contact with the ground.We allow a little bit of flexion.Only, it's hard to see.There's not a lot of it.You see it if you don't have it.A stiff knee gait.And so, what gravity would do is collapse you onto the ground unless you turn on those quads, generate some knee extensor torque, acting eccentrically to allow a little bit of-- to-- to absorb some of this energy during the yield.And then to extend the knee joint, back to full extension.So that's a very important eccentric-concentric activity by the knee extensors there dancers there, at the start of stance phase.Hamstrings.Well, we might expect hamstrings to turn on; to generate this big flexion.But that doesn't look like it's happening.Nothing.No muscle activity is needed to generate that big flexion.And why is that?'Cause I've taken my thigh and flexed it, which has consequences for the body segment behind it.I am not turning on any wrist musculature, and yet my wrist is moving wildly up here.Those are passive forces.Those are inertial forces.Because the thigh is moving forward, it has consequences.Namely, flexion, and then extension of the knee.A whip-like action there.Totally passive.Don't need any muscles at all.What we need the muscles for is to slow down that extension as the lower leg is thrown into extension because of this hip-- this thigh motion.So we actually turn on our hamstrings to break or decelerate the knee extension.We use flexor torque to slow down the knee extension at the end of swing.Not what you would expect at all.But it's very important.That's why, uh, there are frictional breaks built into prostheses for above-knee amputees.So that their knees don't get-- mechanical knees don't get broken in the swing-through.A-- a frictional break.We-- uh, with intact lower legs-- knee joints, we use hamstrings.So that is just totally surprising.And we see hamstrings acting together, slowing down knee extension while providing knee extensor torque.Watch this movie on your own to help you understand some of these items.And we'll see hamstrings active at the end of swing.Here 'green' means 'turned on.'And there are the quadriceps turning on during-- at that initial flexion of the knee, right after contact.What happens if you do not have access to your knee extensor strength for some reason or not?Here, we're gonna watch this physical therapist teaching her class, and...Okay.Please do this at home.Lean forward: soft quads.Lean back: hard quads.Okay?So this is movement at the trunk, at the hip joint.These muscles are supposedly controlling the knee.So what does your trunk position have to do with the knees?Well, if I lean backward like this, gravity will send me down.It's pulling my knees into flexion, so I need to turn on my quads so I don't fall.But if I lean forward, gravity is sending my knees passively into extension, so they're not turned on.So you can guess what you're gonna do.If you can't generate knee extensor torque, what are you gonna do at the beginning of the stance phase?Yes.And let's see if that's correct.The 'zombie walk' march here, of quadriceps insufficiency.Okay.So, you can see that if you have a quadriceps-- I mean a gluteus maximus issue, and a quadriceps issue, you're gonna have a little bit of problem deciding what to do.Because we saw with the quadriceps, you sent your trunk back at heel strike.With the quadriceps insufficiency, you send your trunk forward to passively provide that knee extensor torque.Okay, so, what do the hamstrings do during the gait cycle?When are they active?What is the joint motion when they are active?Is it a grey bar or a black bar?At the knee.We're talking about the knee here.We're gonna do one more joint.Then we're gonna look at a case study.Okay, here we go.And we have-- ooh!About even here.But of course, what the hamstrings are doing is providing flexor torque when the knee is extending at the end of swing, so that's eccentric at the end of swing.Okay.So we need to talk about the ankle.And the ankle, like the knee, has two cycles.Two: plantar flexion, dorsiflexion.Big plantar flexion, and-- followed by dorsiflexion cycles.So the first thing we have to talk about is that initial plantar flexion movement.This dip right here.Little bit of plantar flexion to plant your foot flat on the ground there, in the first 10 percent of the cycle.Labeled as 'PF,' for 'plantar flexion.'And so, what's the muscle act-- activity there?Tibialis anterior has a big burst, right at the beginning of the gait cycle.It turns out tibialis anterior, the dorsiflexor, is controlling the placement of the foot on the ground.If TA didn't do that, you'd have something called 'foot slap,' where the foot just falls onto the ground.So, surprise, surprise!Tibialis anterior.Eccentric action to control-- to slow down what gravity would do to the foot in placing it.Then, less surprising, is that we turn on our plantar flexors to push against the ground by plantar flexing to push us forward.But, those planter flexors turn on while we're still dorsiflexing.The body is behind this contact point.It passes over.So-- but it's still dorsiflexing.The plantar flexors are turning on, grabbing onto that posterior leg, and decelerating dorsiflexion until they finally accelerate in the plantar flexion direction.So they're grabbing on with all of their might to keep you from falling down, like I did when I ruptured my plant-- my calcaneal tendon.I fell down because there wasn't plantar flexor torque to slow down that tibial rotation, anteriorly.Slow down the shank, and then generate plantar flexion.So we have-- like iliopsoas, like the flexors at the hip, first, eccentric and then concentric action.Tibialis anterior comes on again, because you don't wanna-- you don't want to stub your toe when you're swinging through.You need to dorsiflex, so your toes clear the ground.If any of you have purchased a pair of shoes that are pointier, or maybe a little big-- half a size bigger than normal because they were on sale, you might have tripped over your toes.And that's because our brain knows how to predict this clearance quite well.So we actively dorsiflex.This white just means 'isometric.'Just holding it there in that position.Joint ankle isn't changing.Tibialis anterior's still on, so that's just isometric there, at the end.So, then, here's another video you can watch.This can help you understand, with respect to those ground reaction forces, how the-- why we need those muscles to turn on when they do.So I called it-- so we've got 'slap foot' at the beginning of stance phase, if you can't control your tibialis anterior.And also, if you can't turn it on, you get something called 'drop foot,' which is this 'hanging-down' foot during swing phase.This you might see in the clinic a lot if you're working in a stroke clinic, because loss of control of tibialis anterior is something that can happen quite often with a stroke.Or, as in the case of my father, because of spinal stenosis and impingement on some of those spinal nerves, he lost the ability to control his tibialis anterior.I went home one spring break, saw my dad, and said, 'Whoa, he's got foot drop!'We went to the doctor, and he ended up getting a-- a-- a really nice orthosis 'till his spine healed, so that he wouldn't trip over this plantar-flexed foot during swing and fall down.What is she up to?Will we see her face in this video?Drop foot.Okay, so if you-- I actually-- you should probably do these things, to help you remember when the muscles are active.I strongly encourage you to mime an exaggerated gait cycle.So you can remember what the joint movements are.And to talk through-- when muscles are activated when you're doing that, that's really the best way to-- to learn this.Okay, so what does tibialis anterior-- the dorsiflexor-- do, during gait?Who would have known tibialis anterior was so important during the gait cycle?Some of you have started to look at muscle activity during walking as I'm reading your literature reviews, and you can begin to-- which, by the way, have been very nice.And you can begin to see just how complicated control of movement is, and thus, many people's careers are spent in this area.Okay.Good.How about '60,' for 60 percent spent in the stance phase?Okay.Let's talk about frontal plane motion.Early on, when we watched that first old-timey movie with the light bulbs, there was some discussion of hip abductors and adductors.And it turns out that control of lateral tilt during single support is a big deal.And why is that a big deal?Because the pelvis is attu-- is attached to this massively heavy upper body.So any time you accelerate this massively heavy upper body, it's gonna take energy, and that is literally costly.So here, we have an example of someone who is maintaining their level-- in this case, during running on a treadmill.But you can see how the pelvis on the right is much closer to level than the pelvis on the left.The pelvis on the left-- that right hip, that stance leg, is adducting.So the pelvis is dropping to the side opposite to the stance leg.That means that runner's gonna have to pick up that pelvis in the next stance.That's gonna cost energy.That person's not gonna be able to run as long.So, that's a problem in walking, when you have insufficient strength in your abductors to control the level, the lateral 'tilt-ness,' of the pelvis.Forty percent of the time on one leg, and 40 percent of the time on the other leg when you're walking.So, there is a very characteristic pattern that you see, called 'Trendelenburg' gait.And that's when somebody leans their trunk over.And you know what leaning your trunk over will do.We've seen how it helps the knee extensors when you lean forward, and it helps the hip extensors when you lean back.Now, if you lean to the side of the standing leg, what's happening?Gravity is doing the job that the abductors used to do.Gravity torque is now abducting your hip for you.So if you have weak abductors, you get this characteristic tossing of the trunk to one side during walking.If you're in the grocery store, you might see it to one side, or you might see it to both sides.Now, why is that?Well, it turns out that if you have a painful arthritic hip, what hurts your hip is if you activate your abductors.For the reasons we saw earlier.It compresses your hip joint.If your hip joint hurts from arthritis when the compressive loads are high, you're gonna avoid doing that.So, you avoid doing that if you have a painful hip by not turning on your abductors, and then using, um-- so essentially giving yourself abductor weakness.So, in the grocery store, you might see older people who maybe have arthritic hips.Who are adopting that gait pattern to-- to unload their joint.Or if someone is really obese, they might actually have insufficient abductor strength to manage the weight of their trunk.So you see this a lot.Okay, so, when you see Trendelenburg gait, are you leaning towards the affected hip?Or are you leaning away from the affected hip?'Affected hip' meaning weak abductors.And this is counterintuitive because, in fact, you lean towards the affected hip.You think that, 'Oh, if I'm leaning towards the weakened side, I'm putting more weight on that side.'No.Your weight doesn't change.It's all about the abductors not turning on.So you lean toward the side with the weak abductors so that gravity can perform the abduction torque that the gluteus medius used to do.Okay.So.Given all of that, here we go.We see gluteus medius turning on here, in stance, heading towards single support.So as you load onto that limb, gluteus medius turns on on the side of the stance leg, to prevent your pelvis from falling into adduction.Because your body weight would pull you down this way, into adduction, like we saw in the runner.Go gluteus medius turns on to prevent that.Very important, in walking.Okay.So now I have a case study to show you.This is really interesting.Uh, this was a video made here in PM&R, Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation.And we're gonna first listen to this individual's description of his symptoms.And we'll see a manual muscle test to see where he might be weak, and then we're gonna see him move.He can't do this.Heavy bowling ball.Flexor-- even more flexor torque.Okay, so what do we take away from this history so far?Where does he have weakness?Which muscle group?He can't get a spare tire out of his car.What does he need to be able to do that, at the hip?Hip flexors or hip extensors?Yeah?Which one?Extensors.Thank you.So he has weakness in his hip extensors, and it's a gradual-- really slow.You know, this is years and years ago, and now it's gotten to the point where he's really having trouble moving.So he's got some kind of a syndrome that is weakening his-- at least his hip extensors.Now, let's look at where else he might be having some muscle weakness.So, this physician is going to be doing manual muscle testing, something you might learn to do in the clinic.So he's gonna position the limbs in certain ways, and we'll find out what he's testing.Flexors.Elbow flexors.Elbow extensors.Testing triceps.Abductors.Seems to have abductor strength.Now he's gonna test medial and lateral rotation strength.Neck flexors.Flexors.Knee extensors.Flexors.He just said his knee flexors were weak.Uh, he's gonna test knee flexor strength now.Did you see him activating his gastrocnemius to help with, um, knee flexion there?He's weak on his knee flexors.So, he's flexed his knee, and he's gonna ask him to hyperextend his hip.And by flexing his knee, he's shortening the hamstrings, so that he can isolate gluteus maximus here.So, the hamstrings are now so short that they can't generate much force or torque, so we can really focus on-- he can separate out gluteus maximus from the hamstrings in terms of hip extension.So his 'palpate trace' means he can feel them activating a little bit.Now he's gonna check out those abductors, and watch how-- watch how the patient cheats.He tries to use his hip flexors.So he's-- he's trying to use his hip flexors, rather than his abductors.We'll look at his back strength now.His...Okay, so he's got some extensor strength.Okay, so now, what does all that translate to, in terms of his ability to walk?We know he has hip extensor weakness, and we know he has abductor weakness.Look where his trunk is.It's very posterior.And he's shifting when he walks.He's shifting his trunk laterally, more than you might expect.Look at how posterior that trunk is.So he's using that trick.He's not lurching, but he's just leaving his-- his trunk posterior to his hip joint to create that hip extensor torque.Okay, now we're gonna see...Look at that trunk shift, over to the side of the standing leg, with his weak abductors.That's the Trendelenburg position.So the physician is gonna ask him to do something really hard now.You can imagine this would be...So it turn-- it turns out he has some shoulder girdle issues, as well.Is he?Look at the winging, so we know serratus anterior is involved.So he has a syndrome called 'limb-girdle dystrophy.'So, weakening of the muscles that are controlling his shoulder girdle and his pelvis.How is he possibly gonna do this task when he can't generate hip extensor torque?So these accommodations are costing him a lot, energetically.He's totally compensating passively.There's a neat trick.You let the chair provide his hip extensor torque for him.Ooh, we got a little itch.Okay.And, how does he get out of a chair without hip extensor strength?He uses his arms.Ooh, and it's exhausting.So his arms are decelerating his trunk, since his, uh...You're gonna see a-- a little trick that he does here.Again, his arms are very important.And he's gonna use some passive forces.He's gonna push off his thighs.And he throws his trunk backwards.Yeah.So he's a fan of physical therapy, um, that's helped him with that.So, what the slide previously said, I believe was, watch these-- I've put in some more videos for you to watch on your own, about some of these accommodations for different gait issues.And that's kind of a black dark note to leave with.So anyway, you can watch her.And, I guess I am gonna leave you on that black, dark note.So that's muscle action during gait.And you can see that the real world is a little bit more complicated and interesting than the world we saw in terms of muscle action last week.On Wednesday, I am going to talk about the history of musculoskeletal anatomy, just for some cultural context to what we have done this week.If you would like to leave your surveys where they are, that's fine.Or you can leave them in the back.I really, really, really appreciate your feedback.Thank you very much.