Two.

Thirty.

Let's go! Let's finish what we need to finish today regarding the bones of the shoulder and then moving distantly into the forearm.

But i'm going to start the day with some announcements.

Number one.

I am out of town at a conference on friday.

Therefore, i cannot be here for office hours on friday, so i am going to add extra office hours on monday and tuesday before the exam on wednesday.

Now what do i do to calm myself down when i think oh, to miss the office hours before the exam ?

Oh, what a terrible thing i am doing.

I call myself by noting number one, my office hours attractive.

Very few students to date and number two.

I think that probably after the weekend, you might have questions for me because that might be when you're really attending to what's going on exam.

So that's what i do to calm myself.

If you really have burning questions this week, of course, email mate and i will answer them as promptly as i can.

But look for announcements about when office hours will be next monday.

Number two.

I told you that i would rearrange slides to the couple that had jumped out of order.

And the last lecture, i said, oh, i'll just move them and then when i was leaving class.

I thought, oh, dear, i don't know how active learning platform we'll deal with that.

Because now if you might have noticed, if you click on a slide, it goes to the place in the video where i'm talking about that slide.

So i don't know what would happen to that synchronicity between the video lecture and this and slides and notes if i move things around after the lecture, so in fear of screwing things up, i just left well enough alone on that, okay ?

Number three.

Do you have any questions right now about the format of the exam or how to study for it ?

Or what will be on it in anticipation of some weekend time devoted to this task ?

Yes.

The practice exams do not exist because i hope that the pre imposed class quizzes the questions in the lectures will be sufficient.

Teo, to give you a clue as to what might be coming on the exam.

So those air my proxy for practice exams.

Thank you for asking that.

Anything else ?

I got a quest.

Oh, yes.

That would be a no.

And i've heard that now.

And i haven't gone back and looked at the quizzes to see where the offending question might be.

Do you have an example off the top of your head you could share with me ?

Okay.

That quizzes are there to direct your attention so i'll go back and look at that.

I won't pull questions from the quizzes.

I will pull questions from lecture that.

So that's on my to do list to see where there might be a disconnect.

Yes.

Okay, so i suspect that's the case.

And so those those quizzes are really on, not what happened in lecture, but in that module related to the topic.

So it could be just a lack of sequencing integrity.

So i'm i'm hoping i'm thinking that's the case.

Yes.

All right.

I will find those questions and respond directly to that.

So thank you for bringing that to my attention.

So another point i want to make is about the issue of questions.

I for one love quest agents you cannot ask me, eh eh question that will make me think less of you for asking once when students have questions, i think number one d a.

They care enough to formulate a question.

Number two.

They're engaged enoughto ask a question and i will never, ever, ever think of question over.

It will never make you vulnerable for a negative opinion from me.

In other words, ask any question that pops up.

I appreciate your questions very much, yes.

Fifty four.

Isn't that an odd number ?

Two ?

Teo, get behind.

But on your scantron sheet, you know the the question.

They're six questions on a page.

So that's how i ended up with with fifty four and when i designed the exams, i tend to distribute those questions over the modules that it will cover.

So basic concepts have a lot of movements.

I'm a skimp on that, but generally i do try to spread them out somewhat evenly over the modules.

And of course, if you have more on monday, we'll talk about it again.

Then i will not finish the bones and joints of thie.

No elbow wrist in hand today.

But i'll be able to finish that up rapidly on monday and i would say ninety eight percent of the material on the exam will be covered by the end of today.

All righty.

Well, there's a good way to start today.

Let me reload.

Oh, that might explain it.

My internet went away while i was talking.

You might have noticed that participation points for monday have not yet been posted.

That's because the data are a little bit slow arriving from.

Echo three sixty, but not to fear it will be there as soon as i possibly can get it.

Okay, here we go.

So, any clue which of these images shows thie inferior aspect of the clavicle to remember anything about the clavicle from last time ?

When in doubt, feel your own clavicle and see if that without memorizing anything could help you and gin use your body is the best study aid question answering device that is fair game to bring two exams.

All righty.

Here we go.

And you have chosen either one or the other.

Now, what do you know about the superior aspect of the clavicle ?

Nice and smooth, unless you've broken it and you have a bump.

Ah, the superior aspect is smooth.

This is nice and smooth, so the inferior aspect is the one with the convoy to brickell and this subclavian group.

Okay, now, now that you know that this is inferior and this is superior, is this right ?

One or the left one again ?

Your fingers can help you answer that question.

Do you know anything about the lateral aspect of this clavicle ?

We talked about a certain landmark being lateral last time that can help you with the medial and lateral and, you know, superior inferior.

So knowing those two things, then you can do some fancy special orientation.

Oh, i think i need to open the question here.

Reiter left.

Fifty percent chance of getting it right.

This, by the way, in my mind is the hardest bone in the entire class to orient.

Already.

So are we going to do better than fifty.

Fifty ?

Yeah, and the majority of the class is incorrect.

Okay, so let's talk about this.

Uh, this is the superior aspect, and this is thie inferior.

What do we know about the inferior the con oid to burke hole is lateral.

So since this is just flipped one eighty degrees, this is the lateral aspect.

And so if you hold your computer up to your body, you'll find that and rotate the screen.

You'll find that the convex, the broad convex curve is more medial.

And so that's gonna match your left clavicle.

So i really suggests that you do wrote you no.

Pick up your laptop and wrote, traded around and try and match that superior view to your body.

Hard question.

The point of the question was to get you to remember that this conroy to pickle is lateral.

That's going to help you orient this bone.

Okay, now that you're totally depressed, let's move on.

Ligaments reinforced the glen.

Oh, hugh meral joint.

Remember, this is the name that we gave to the shoulder joint because the humors articulates with the glen oid fossa on the scapula.

So here are some of the names a the ligaments running from the scapula near the glen oy fossa to the humerus are called the glen.

Oh, hugh meral.

Ligament.

We can think of this is reinforcing the synovial joint.

That is the glen.

Oh, humor rolled joint.

There's an additional additional one.

A peace that runs from the core.

A coid process of the scapula over to the humerus.

Well, we're here.

Notice that there is what looks like a ten that lies in that into enter tubercular groove.

It turns out that's part of your biceps muscle.

And we're going to be talking about that tendon and its relationship to a particular injury.

The leno hugh meral joint a little bit later.

But now just notice how convenient it is that that tendon has a place to live.

It lies right in that inter tubercular groove.

All righty.

So let's name some other ligaments and pick one and name it.

But you.

Already.

Let's get those names down so we can move on.

And here we go.

A crow meo clay vic euler a crow milk of liqueur kalinic euros number two sternal clavicle er, shoulder ligament.

Ok, some of these are more specific than others.

The point of this is to emphasize to you that you don't always have to memorize.

You can think your way through anatomy if you know the names of the bones or landmarks you already know when you see a ligament attached to it.

What it's called.

So someone pointed out that someone's that number two was the chromium a clip ?

Vehicular ligament.

Do we like that name ?

Yes, because it runs from the clavicle to the chromium.

Similarly, number one runs from the core a coid process to the clavicle.

So coric okla vehicular might be a good name for that one.

And here's a ligament that runs from the core coid process to the chromium or the core echo a crow meal ligament.

And if we look at the names here they are a caviar.

The cork oak cliff vehicular ligament has two parts.

And those have names that you do have to memorise because the bony anatomy won't get you all the way there.

One portion of it is called the trap is oid.

The other part is called the conroy.

Is there any clue in the naming of these ligaments ?

Where they might attach the trap is oid must be trap is oid shape.

What does the word do you think the con oid ligament might ?

T recall that there is a con oid to birkoff on the inferior lateral aspect of thie clavicles.

So that's where the con oid ligament attach is on the conway to recall a meets a prime.

Shoulder separation occurs when the clavicle separates from the scapula.

That means that those ligaments that you just named hair because they're holding the clavicle to this gap.

Ula.

They're keeping that a crow meo club vehicular joint intact so you can see on the left.

Some separation and even more separation here.

And you can also see a con a cone of bone.

There's the con oid to brickell on the inferior lateral aspect of the clavicle, and you can see the kora coid process here.

Anybody in here experienced this ?

All our shoulders have never been separated in this room.

Good for us.

Okay.

All right.

So how does that happen ?

A force.

This big arrow is showing you the direction of force applied.

So one way to do this is to fall so that the ground contacts scapula in this direction if you fall on your shoulder and these little action arrows air showing where the strain occurs.

So in this case, the a chrome eo clip vehicular ligament is strained.

It can be strained so much that it actually tears once it tears than the kora coquelin vehicular ligament can be stretched, and it can be stretched to the point where it tears another clavicle is is quite separated entirely from the scapula.

Now, if the bloke comes in this direction, ugly things can happen so that the clavicle displaces anti rly post here lee, in this case, post yearly.

Huge separation here or hears here's something that hopefully will involve anesthesia.

Quickly.

The clavicle gets done underneath the core.

A coid process.

Okay, so this is increasing severity of this shoulder.

In injury notice here i've resorted to abbreviation shins a c a chrome eo clavicle er cc cortical cora coquelin vehicular ligament.

All righty.

So let's move on to other aspects of thie in this case, the glen oh, hugh meral joint.

What are we looking at here ?

This is a sagittal view of the lateral aspect of the glen oh, hugh meral joint.

You might remember that we saw just the bare scapula from this view last time.

Here's the kora coid process in a crow, man.

And here's the glen oid fossa.

In this view, you can see the highland cartilage that covers the illinois fosse's.

So it's nice and smooth when the head of the humerus articulates with it and needs to move with respect to it.

But what we haven't seen before is this rim libro cartilage that deepens that a glen.

Oh, hugh meral socket.

Remember, we talked about how shallow that len oid fossa is, and so what's going to hold that rounded head of the humerus against fairly flat gl annoyed fossa will.

There is a rim of fei broke arledge called the glen oid labor.

Um, that is going to help with that.

So it's an additional structure.

As part of this synovial joint, you can also see here the reinforcing ligaments that we've we talked about just moments ago.

Let's talk about challenges to that.

Glenn.

Oh, humor all labor.

What ?

Khun, go wrong.

What can damage that structure ?

Well, here you see a guy and his pitching, and he does this movement in preparation for a pit.

And what i'd like you to do is to tell me.

The position of the glen.

Oh, humor.

Old joint.

What does the glendale here moral joint do ?

It flexes extends aban at ducks and it immediately and latterly rotates.

So which of the movement's has occurred to get his lenora hugh meral joint into the position shown here ?

So that arrow is indicating that his forearm is rotating backwards.

If you do, this movement feels somewhat awkward and maybe even painful.

What the heck is going on there ?

Okay, so it looks like you pretty much made up your minds.

Let's look at what you had to say.

I see hyperextension.

I see a lot of extensions.

I see external rotation.

Do i see the word abduction anywhere ?

So oh, abduction and lateral rotation.

Nailed it.

Okay, so let's talk about what's going on there.

Not extended it all to get in that position, you would abduct.

So let's see.

What i'll do is flex my elbow abduct.

Now, how do i get that forearm to rotate in the direction of the arrow ?

I am externally are latterly rotating.

Medial lateral puts your may be an easier way to think about this.

Lecture elbow laterally, rotate and then abduct.

And there you are.

So this is what pictures do.

Abduct and latterly rotate.

Then they're going teo, of course flex.

When that happens, look what's going on.

Skeletal lee here is something like anatomical position.

Here's what happens in abduction.

Look at where that greater tuber coal with abduction is with respect to the chromium.

So anything soft and squishy that might be in between the greater tuber cole and the home in is at risk for getting pinched in this position, and we'll see later that there's at one particular muscle.

The muscle that is very important in and generating abduction can get pinched there and cause some problems.

Now.

So decrease in sub crow meal space is called shoulder impingement, impingement, pinching, squeezing.

So that's happening.

And the other thing that's happening is the picture is going to rapidly flex.

That arm bicep breaky eye is going to be involved in that movement.

So here's the biceps tendon lying in this inter tubercular groove.

And look where it attach is over the top a proximal here to the greater tuber cole and lying in this sub crow meal space to attach to the scapula at the super a glen oid to brickell, ooh! So what happens in this position of abduction and forceful activation of the biceps can be something called the slap tear.

Superior ll abram is what gets torn and against thorne in the anterior post your direction.

And that's because biceps is pulling on this illinois labor.

So this is an injury.

Do we have any pictures in here who might have experienced this ?

So this is the so called slap tear.

You need to remember what slap stands for.

And if you and then you'll know what ?

Everything you need to know basically about this injury.

Here's ah, former to thirty student who was a picture and hear some images provided by his orthopedic surgeon.

So g here means, uh, glenn oid fossa of the scalp.

H means humorous.

This is inside the synovial joint.

L means labour.

Um, here's thie and tear direction of post airier and there's thie anterior.

Post your ear tear of the labor.

Um, and you can see his biceps.

It's tendon attaching there.

So over here we can see the tear.

Some of the surgical steps, some suits.

Hering, etcetera, in the endoscopic surgery.

Not only can we tear.

That ll abram.

But i mean, head of the humors can completely depart from the glen oid fossa and we call that a dislocation.

So typically that happens in the anterior direction.

It can also happen inferior on post here.

So let's let's figure out how this image helps you understand.

This is anterior.

In this case, the head of the humerus is not articulating with glenn oid fossa, but in fact is now tucked underneath anterior lee that cora coid process out.

It could dislocate inferior lee and get stuck underneath the glenwood fossa.

Or it could dislocate in a post cheerier direction and gets stuck posterior to the fossa.

How are we doing with our breakfast so far ?

Since we've had a lot of a lot of injury early, early in the morning.

So when you fall on the ice and slip backwards and the force of the ground when you catch your fall might push that head of humorous anteria lee and dislocated what ligaments might get stretched tourney and a dislocation situation, what are the ligaments that hold the head of the few humorous close to the scapula ?

Glen.

No, merle ligaments.

All right, let's talk about this so called scapula jurassic joint movements of the scapula on the thorax.

We've named thes movements before elevation, depression, pro traction retraction and upward and downward rotation and these movements that we've named.

But now you know that those movements are occurring at actual joints, particularly the sternal clavicle er joint and the chrome eo clinic euler joint might be doing a little bit of lighting to adjust along the way.

Here's a picture of upward rotation, and i'm putting this here so you can figure out why this movement has been named upward rotation.

I couldn't tell you this before because you had no idea what the klan oid fossa was before.

But the upward rotation means that the gl annoyed fossa is rotating so that it faces port or the glen oy fossa is rotating, so it faces more downward.

Thus board, rotation and download rotation.

Named for where the gl annoyed fossa is going upward, rotation faces port.

Now, why is there such a thing called rotation of the scapula ?

Well, we've talked about how that head of the, uh, humerus is big and round, and the articulating surface on the scapula is is pretty small.

And we see that there might be a limitation in how much the humors can abduct on the scapula.

Because of that, a chrome ian superior lee.

It's gonna limit how much abduction you can have, but we might want to reach for something.

Your hat up on a shelf, right ?

So we need more mobility than is allowed by the bony shape at at that joint.

So what's the solution ?

We rotate the whole system, the whole scapula moves so that to get to what appears to be one hundred eighty degrees of abduction at our clan of hugh meral joint.

Really, what we've got is about ninety degrees and then the no uh, scapula rotates like us.

We've got sixty degrees.

Yeah, upward rotation of the scapula combined with one hundred and twenty degrees rotation of the humerus on the scapula to get to our one hundred eighty degrees here.

So really, the scapula and the humerus move and kind of a rhythm.

The scapula humerus rhythm.

If you look here, it's showing how that's happening.

We've got about twice a cz much movement at the glen oh, hugh meral joint as scapular rotation here.

The point of all of this is to say there's a coordination in the motions, the's bones.

And if something disrupts the ability of the scapula to move, say, for example, a shoulder separation, you lose.

Ah, whole bunch function at your glenn oh, hugh meral joint because you can't do this.

So you've seen people walking around in slings.

It's likely feeling a shoulder separation.

And, uh, you can't you can't do much when that there's nothing wrong with e arms of those individuals.

But because this is disrupted, a lot of fly.

Oh, so we're done with the shoulder and we can move on to the distal upper extremities question.

Okay, here we go.

Oh, a lot of bones rated.

So na carpools, metacarpals phalanges.

A lot of bones.

Distantly.

We'll talk about the elbow, carpal tunnel syndrome, another baseball playing injury followed by surgery named after the first one to get that surgery.

And then we'll talk about movements of the upper extremities.

So here's where we are.

We've talked about the scapula and clavicle as the shoulder girdle, the scapula and humerus as thie glenn, oh, hugh meral or shoulder joint.

Now we're going to talk about the bones here and how they work together to form the elbow, wrist and fingers.

So we have to name these two bones ana and radius in the forearm and then all of these bones in the wrist and hand.

This word digits sometime is convenient because fingers typically refers to these four digits and the thumb as thie.

Other digit.

So the word digit is generic for these things, fingers typically means the digits that aren't the thumb.

Okay.

Oh, some words here breaking.

Um, this region.

No, the upper arm is the brake eel region biceps breaky i triceps breaking eye muscles of the break.

You'll region.

Then the forearm, anti break.

You and the wrist bones air called the car pools, metacarpals and digits.

All right, so feel your all not.

So you have.

We did this last time, alba.

Bone walk down your elbow and where you end up, you end up on the pinky side of your hand.

That is your own right there.

You can feel it quite easily.

So if that's the case, do you think this is an anterior post your view ?

We can answer it in, like, sixteen different ways now, because you know what ?

The scapula which side is ?

And here, in post here on the scapula.

But what you just did was travel here to the pinky fingers can't.

Okay, so let's talk about that.

All not.

It has a couple of processes.

Three notches to one big tube.

Rosset ian ahead.

So let's go find those.

And i think that you can do this.

Let's find out if you know anything specifically about the ulna at this point.

How much of this can you sort out just by knowing what thes anatomical terms mean ?

We're still working.

Little bit more time.

All right, make some clicks.

Let's finish this up and be on our way.

Okay, here we go.

And they're your answers and hear the names.

So this thing that you used to call your elbow bone, now you call your electron on process.

This bob on the post eerie er aspect of your wrist on the pinky finger side you will now call the owner style oid process little needle shaped, sticky outie process of bone on the anterior side is where we'll find the core annoyed process and an owner tubarao city distal to two things to know the owner head distel.

The human ral head was proximal.

So the only stands on its head.

There, in the forearm, the head is distant and the tro clear or not, you might recall the truck leah on the distal humerus.

The tro clear, not fitz.

The tro clia.

This is where the ulna articulates with the humerus.

The truck leah of the humerus.

All right, so that's what i just said.

Here's an anterior ofyou post.

Eerie irv, you.

So here is the tro clear notch of the ulna fitting beautifully into the truck.

Leah of the humerus.

This is the medial epic con dial.

So does that match up that suggests that the medial bone of the forearm is the owner and in fact, the pinky side of your hand.

And that owner skylight processes medial an anatomical position here.

So that kind of makes.

And then post eary early.

That great big knobby electra non process fits right into the electron.

Bassem of the distal post ear e er humorous.

Radius is much more simple.

It has a head and neck, a radio to ferocity, a radial style oid process and an ulnar notch.

So let's look at it, rose.

And you just need to tell me where the head of the radius is here.

One, two, three or four.

And after you've done that is this anterior posterior.

What do you know about the ulna ?

Is this an ant ?

You're a post your view of the only here.

You're looking into the tro clear or not, that's anterior.

You're not looking at the election on process process.

Okay, so let us move on.

You found the head.

Indeed.

You have found the head.

The head is proximal on the radius so the radius and ulna even though they articulate with each other their heads or it opposite ends of the forearm.

So the where there's a round head, there's often a neck and close proximity.

And here is the radio tube ferocity.

And finally the radio style oid process is distant on the thumb side of the hand and always on the thumb side of the hand.

So what we haven't seen here are these notches, so the owner not.

Excuse me.

Okay.

I won't bother you with that.

So we have a radio tube, ferocity on the radius and an ulnar to ferocity on the ulna.

And those air going to be important sites of attachment for some big muscles involved in elbow flexion.

We've seen this picture before.

We looked at it with respect to the ulna.

Now we can look at the radius.

The head of the radius articulates with the capitol of the humerus on the lateral side.

Anterior view.

Oh, steer your view.

Isn't this interesting ?

The head of the radius seems to be flat, so the rounded nous is on the distal humerus, but the, uh, radius radio head is flattened.

Owner notch radio notch.

So those.

The notches are where the heads articulate with the other bones.

So there's a notch on the omagh for the head of the radius, and there's a notch on the radius for the head.

Oh.

And go to back up here their name for the bone that will articulate with, um so there's an owner notch on the radius for the head of the ulna to articulate with.

Here's a question for you now that you know the shapes of the adult bones, which of these two people are older ?

Is old, which is older.

And we put some answers and you think it is the right person ?

Sure enough, thie secondary ossification centers have hardly appeared in this individual on the distal ends of these long bones, the online the radius.

Here you can see that they're getting closer to being closed.

There's a highland cartilage.

Uh, material here and here you can recognize the radio star.

Stylized process, the ulna style oid process.

This is not an adult individual.

What is this thickening here ?

Actually, that's the callous.

It's formed.

The bone is still in.

There was a fracture here, and it's healing, so that'll go wait when this bonus is fully healed.

Good work.

Okay.

And do you have mature ?

All nous ulna and radius is yeah.

Twenty years old is maybe when the radius.

No, that epiphany cece finally closes there.

So likely there's maturity in the online radius in this room.

So college, we'd say.

Here's a question that you might ask, do i have to know the specific ages of one ?

These bones mature.

No first grade elementary school, middle school, college.

I need ballpark ballpark and just understanding of skeletal maturity in here.

What ?

Here's a case study image from a former to thirty students.

This happened, and he tried to open the car door to get out of the car, found he couldn't and then passed out.

And then i didn't even know about thes x rays until he went looking for his case study.

So what ?

Phone bid he'd break ?

Yes.

Uh, the latin which rose hit with it.

That which i'm saying that.

What ?

X ray ?

Less close.

Did they rotate it ?

He he was not conscious at this point.

No, they weren't manipulating his arm when he was in a state.

He knew this was happening.

Yes.

Thank you.

Were not looking at cruelty here.

So this actually might have been in when he was in the o.

R.

So what have you decided ?

You have decided the radius and good job because you have recognized a couple of things.

The radius is much bigger at its disciplined than the owner.

The illness, this slender little bone distantly as it approaches the wrist bones.

You may also have noticed that the broken bone is the one on the thumb side of the wrist.

And that's where we find the radius.

Good job.

All right, s o now, remember when you learned way back when radius and ulna deviation ?

Now you have some firm ground to stand on because all nerd deviation really ?

No.

Um, this is a picture of moving the hand in the frontal plane towards in the direction of the pinky finger.

Now we know that that's the ulnar side of the wrist.

So all our deviation is moving towards thie almost side of the forum.

Now this makes sense.

So we have twice more minutes.

Let's learn all these bones in those twenty minutes.

Okay, so here's the job that we have ahead of us.

Eat carpal bones.

Those are the little bones in the wrist.

Five metacarpals, five digits.

And you might expect there would be fifteen bones in the digits called milan.

Jeez, no.

Fourteen.

So that means that it's not a five times three.

Situation is a four times three plus two.

And on ly two in the so they're fourteen land.

Jeez.

To here.

One, two, three in the finger.

Okay, so let's learn these eight carpal bones.

Scaphoid lunatic, tri key troll piss, a form trapeze, iam trap.

Persuade capitaine hameed yanks.

None of that makes particular sense, but they're going to come in to tidy rows of four, so we'll learn them in that way.

When you assemble the carpal bones, they form an art.

And that's going to be important when we learn about why carpal tunnel syndrome exists.

Because this arch forms that tunnel.

So the structures that pass through that arch are the ones that get into trouble with carpal tunnel syndrome.

All righty.

So can you find here, the palmer surface ?

The most distal and lateral carpal bones ?

Wow.

So i would suggest finding distel and lateral first and then decide if there's anyway, you could figure out which is homer surface here.

Okay, so before you commit here's a hint feel the heel of your hand.

This is where you're your carpal czar.

You know that ?

Because you confined the distal end of your own on radius.

When you press on that the press pretty hard on this palmer aspect.

Do you feel anything ?

Maybe you feel over here.

Bye, st joseph.

What's on the indiana border here in michigan ?

Getting towards the end of and a border.

You feel a, uh, a bunch ?

There's a hard bump over there almost to lake michigan and almost indiana.

Okay, so do you see anything like that up here ?

Okay, let's go.

Here is that bump.

So this is how you know whether you're looking at a palmer or adore soul aspect of the risk wrist because of this bone that perches up on the other carpools and you can feel it.

On the western side of the state western and southern sze side of of michigan.

So good work.

Do you know anything about these carpools ?

And i won't linger long here because you may not.

But let's just see if you know, if you've retained anything from what you did before class.

So we're going to study these car pulls in and rosa proximal row of for a distal row of four.

So this bone number four that we've been working with ?

This is a palmer view.

This is the almost side and western side of the state, almost to indiana.

What's the name of that boat ?

And here we go.

You have converged on answer.

That phone is called the piss a form p shaped over at the thumb side.

The scaphoid comes from a root boat.

Here's lou.

Nate, it this is the cute ist of the carpools.

It actually looks like a crescent moon when you have just a loon.

Eight on the table, it's it's the cuticle crescent moon you've ever seen.

Strike he troll is triangular shaped and the piss a form perches on it.

Okay, so now let's look at this distal row of four carpools.

Oh, and see if you can find the one called the capital.

And you picked it out yet ?

Yes, you have.

So let's see what you've got.

And you have mostly found the capitated as this biggest carpal in the distal row, the capital.

The hamate is very easy to identify because it has a hook on it.

And to praise iam and trap is oid are just annoying.

The two names sound alike and that's just irritating.

Except trapezius articulates with the bones of the thumb.

So i put the two thumbs together in my mind.

And that's how i remember that trapeze iam is the most lateral, these karpel in the distal row.

Okay, so there's a job, and i suggest that's a weekend job because you will want to take more past more passes at learning these carpools.

Then next tuesday night, before the exam.

So give it a go this weekend and then rehearse next week.

Okay, so have we learned anything here ?

Here is a fractured, a broken wrist, a fractured carpal bone.

Which one is that ?

First of all.

Is it in the proximal or a distal row ?

Did i make you come up with the name of it ?

Cruel.

I should have put a list.

Your choices are piss a form.

Lou, nate tri key troll, scaphoid those air, the four proximal row what was i thinking ?

That you could just write that name at this point on.

So those your four choices and, well, i know what i was thinking.

That you're wonderfully bright.

University of michigan undergrads, which is true.

Okay, so let us see the word scaphoid.

Okay, so, in fact, this is the scaphoid looney.

Try key troll and piss a form.

Okay, so the scaphoid articulates here with the radius.

What is this with this landmark ?

What bonuses ?

Slender all.

No style.

Oid process.

Looks like a needle.

Okay, so moving on here is that scaphoid fracture.

Look at that piss a form sitting up there on the tricky troll.

And here it is, two months later and still healing at three months.

This is interesting.

Look at this space.

In fact, we're going to see that that's filled with a fiber cartilage pad.

Number of the day.

Seventeen.

Go for it.

Got it.

Next, let's talk about carpal tunnel syndrome.

So schematic view here of a trans verse section through the carpools.

Here are the carpools forming that arch and then the structures inside that arch are soft, squishy things, a nerve and some tending.

And there is a roof that is formed.

To enclose that tunnel.

It's called the transfers.

Carpal ligament.

You could name that.

Or if you saw it, you would know what it is.

It runs transbourse flee across this carpal arch.

So it is an enclosed space.

So what can go wrong with soft, squishy things in an enclosed space ?

If the space gets smaller, those soft, squishy things get impinge squeezed or if the soft, squishy things are damaged and, for example, through and get tendinitis and they swell.

Then they're too big for the carpal tunnel, and that can also press on them.

So those air two mechanisms of what can set off this thing that we call carpal tunnel syndrome.

So there are lex sirs tendons that are going to flex the muscles of the fingers.

And then there is a nerve called the median nerve.

Those air, the structures that are at risk.

So, um, when they get in compressed, you fall on your wrist, damage it or new mouse or game play or keyboard too much, or your job is to cut up chickens in a factory and you overuse those flexor muscles and get tendinitis.

They can swell.

So if you want to see a surgery that cuts open this trans verse carpools ligament and releases the pressure on these structures.

You, khun, follow this link ?

Um, but typically now what's done earlier on ?

It's just a mobile, relies a wrist.

Sometimes you see people walking wearing risk.

Clint's.

It's likely to, um, relieved the tendonitis in those finger flexors from too much keyboarding, for example.

All righty.

So let's learn the last set of a jillion bones.

Today we've got our metacarpals and our fingers.

So this is pretty easy because they have numbers, not names.

So all you have to do is remember, where is the one bone and where is the five phone ?

And the one bone is on the thumb side, and then we just number sequentially.

Moving on, he sighed.

So metacarpal one is the one that belongs to the thumb, too.

Belongs to the index finger, etcetera.

Metacarpal five belongs to the the pink.

Sometimes those air called reyes, um and that kind of comes from an embryo logical or a developmental anatomy view.

If you're looking at a fetal development vertebrates, you might talk about the development of the metacarpals and phalanges ese.

As our whole race you might come across that term.

Landmarks are easy.

We've got ahead a base in the in between the shaft in between.

Only thing you need to remember here, heads or distal.

Base is approximately.

So what is that ?

Like the ulna or the radius ?

Does the owner of the radius have a distal head ?

Oh, no.

So the heads of the metacarpals are distant, like the owner.

Oh, like it's written here on the slide.

Okay, so, um, fine.

Really.

Bass of the first medical.

Let's put this knowledge to work.

And once you've done that, you might remember remind yourself whether this is the palmer or door soul aspect of this set up.

Is that your and the answer would be palmer.

Because there is the piss a form already you are done.

So let's look at this and mailed it.

Excellent carpools, metacarpals one on the sunny side.

Which landmark corresponds to your knuckles ?

Knuckle sandwich.

You're serving heads of the metacarpal.

Look at all those image your fingers in the first graders.

First birthday.

Six year old first ray means the thumb side.

This is the pinky side and still growing in elementary school.

No surprise there.

All right, so let's talk about these fourteen milan.

Geez, what is a single bone called ?

Interestingly, a phalanx with an x, not a full injun, but a phalanx.

Plural is flan cheese.

So we've got we've got a name, these bones.

We've got a proximal phalanx and middle phalanx and a distal phalanx, so your fingernails are on the distal phalanx.

And the thumb has only a proximal and distal and does not have a middle failing.

And the landmarks on each one of those phalanges is named happily the same way as the metacarpals.

So the heads of these long bones, even though they're rather small they are hollow, fit the definition of a long bone.

They have a head, a shaft and a bass, just like the metacarpals so easy we've got a cookbook.

We just multiply it by five, basically to sort out all of these bones.

So number three iss.

And don't forget to tell me if this is a right one or less fine.

And what have we got ?

So we're still two more seconds, and here we go.

So number three, he's not what ?

We're working on number three.

This is and palmer side because there's the piss a form.

So when i put my two palmer aspects up, it looks like i'm looking into my right hand.

So this is the right one.

Uh, number three.

This is the second metacarpal.

So this must be the index finger.

So this is the right second.

Middle failings.

And is that what you got ?

And here we go.

They're all labelled for you there.

So just be sure that you can identify it bone appropriately.

That's the only job i got for these phalanges.

High school fingers are mature.

Oh, what is that ?

Okay, so what are we looking at here ?

Radius ?

All na carpools.

I know that this scaphoid articulates with the radius.

That must be the loon.

Eight.

Next door trapezius.

Excuse me.

Try key.

Troll and piss a form.

Here's the big capitated.

That trapeze iam trap is oid over here.

This is the first met, uh, carpal.

And look at that thick cortical bone.

And there's a little.

Is this a fracture ?

Well, in fact, this is not a fracture.

This is a sesamoid bone.

Remember we talked about the little sesamoid bones that are inside tendons.

Of course, the most famous one is your patella or kneecap.

We've got them here, too.

And in fact, if you press now, where would that be ?

That's going to be right at this joint between the first metacarpal and the bass.

Your proximal phalanx here, if you press in there oh, it's really uncomfortable.

There's something kind of hard in there.

So you would be you can kind of feel that sesamoid bone so we have about five more minutes and some joints to talk about, so i won't get through all of this, but we'll be able to finish it up quite quickly on monday morning.

At least we got the bombs under your belt now.

So you're in good place to start working with them over the weekend.

So we have to talk about what makes up the elbow, the risk, and then all of these joints.

Karp.

Oh, metacarpal.

Metacarpal, a carpal metacarpal here metacarpal flan, shell and then inter ful angio.

So a lot of joints, by the way, also no.

Okay, so elbow joint.

What has to happen at the elbow ?

Well, the ulna and radius have to flex and extend on the humerus.

But something else happens in this elbow joint complex.

Super nation pronation.

So it's all in the same joint capsule.

It's a synovial joint.

The ends of these bones are all coated with lovely, smooth highland cartilage, which is anterior.

Thieve you without the electrode on process ?

Because we know that's posterior.

Okay, moving on here is what the joint looks like.

Well, back up one, the tro claire notch of the ulna articulates with the tro cle of the humerus thie radio ahead articulates with kappa tellem of the humerus.

So that's what these words are saying here.

Hugh moreau, radio no joint.

Hugh meral.

Owner joint.

And there are going to be ligaments, cole, lateral on the side, on the underside and on the radio.

All sides that, uh, court the joints.

The other joint that's included in this joint capsule is the one between the alma and the radius.

And this is where pro nation super nation happens.

This rounded and flattened head of the illness, the radius spins against the ulna and that swings the distal and of the radius around the ulna.

And so we get radio and owner motion probation super nation, so that if you put your fingers on your ulna and you prone aidan super nate owners going nowhere, that radius is spinning right around that stable all night.

You saw the words radio and owner collateral ligaments.

Previously, here's a picture off them.

So this is a frontal view.

Here's the medial epic con dial and the oma and radius distantly.

So the collateral ligaments we've talked about thie owner ligament runs around the head of the radius and holds it there so that the radius is spinning inside that annular ligament we've seen annular means ring around, as in the annual ist fibrosis and the inter vertebral dis.

So we talked about the shoulder of pictures previously.

What about the elbows ?

One of these elbow ligaments, the radio arthuis owner collateral ligament are at risk when you do this movement and which one do you think it would be ?

Oh.

It turns out that the ligament on the medial side, this all nor collateral ligament gets stretched in these high speed pitches where it is stretched, it can tear.

And the tommy john surgery is the name for an ulnar collateral ligament repair.

These air so successful that professional pictures can go on to professionally pitch after having this repair done, it's quite remarkable, so it's thie owner collateral ligament that gets into trouble with this movement.

So can you find these ligaments ?

One last question of the day, which is which.

Can you find something that looks like the ulna or the radius ?

And once you do that, can you identify them ?

In particular ligament to this one, i guess.

All right, so i'm going to stop this, and then i'm going to explain to you what the answer is.

And here they are.

I will pick up from here and talk about the wrist and finger movements, ligaments and injuries.

Next time, remember to email me.

If you have burning questions over the weekend, i will get back to you about those post class quizzes and have a good rest of the week.

See you next monday.