There it is.

Okay.

Can you hear me ?

Oh, i can hear me.

I think i'm there.

Welcome.

We liked this version of winter.

So much better.

Right ?

Soft, pretty snowflakes in your eyes.

Thirty degrees.

Feels balmy at this point.

Okay.

Mm.

Any difficulties with those quizzes ?

Bored with those quizzes.

So i have.

I'm not hearing anything, so i'm gonna assume silences of resulting see.

No complaints about that.

So i just have this up here to point out to you that the first assignment which is required is due the a week plus from today on the wednesday after mlk day.

So i'm pointing that out to you because you might want to think about your coming weekend if you don't get up to that library before then, so be sure you read that assignment pretty soon and get your arms wrapped around it because you have to actually reserve a time to use the anatomy knowledge able.

So you might wantto make some plans sooner rather than later.

For that and also read the fine details.

You need to take a selfie of yourself.

Don't forget you need teo.

Bring a usb stick with you to take some images from the table that you'll turn in.

Feel free to grab someone and go with them.

We'll just each turn in your own images.

Feel free to explore that table with somebody else, right.

I'm going to talk more about great craft on wednesday.

The other thing that i want to talk to you about is what happened to the lecture recording last time.

The person who set up the class.

I'm going to jump out of here entirely.

The person who said boy the person who set up the class.

Well, speaking of class, here we go.

Ah! Set up the recording for eight.

Thirty nine p.M.

So it recorded last wednesday night.

So, uh, we caught that error and have changed it.

But if you wanted to go back and look at what the lecture looks like in that mode scroll to the bottom like i did here past, we're starting at two instead of one because of this error.

So if you want to go back and look at the first lecture, scroll to the bottom, notice this green but an hour.

So after classes greet this button, which is great, out now will turn bright green.

And when you click on it, you could get the video recording class so you can watch me gesticulating up here if you like.

So so this button will turn green shortly after class.

So that's that.

And um and presses button up in the corner to go to full screen.

So let's start with learning about the stuff that the skeleton and the joints are made of.

So today we're going to talk about some materials.

But before we do that, let's just check in on how you're doing with these.

Don't.

What is this movement called going from the top to the bottom here ?

One of the shoulder girdle.

Silence once again has descended.

Feel free.

Check in with your neighbor.

You too.

Check your answer against there.

Fine talk.

And look at what ?

What is occurring ?

Phone.

So called collarbones seems to be responsible for moving.

Third's there.

Anybody want more time or do we have this done ?

Yeah.

And let's see what we've got.

And bravo, you did the quizzes you learned.

What retraction is excellent.

Oh, how worried with thes pelvis movement.

This is a trans verse view looking down on the superior aspect of a disembodied pal.

And you can see the left foot.

You khun see what's anterior there where the toe is pointing so okay.

I hope this one turns out as cleanly as the last one.

Anyone want more time ?

Okay, here we go.

But we'll still working on this one.

It's a left rotation.

And why is that ?

We're taking the anterior side of the body and rotating it towards the person's life.

And moving on another pelvis movement, this time in the frontal plane.

Consider which side of the pelvis is dropping here.

All righty.

Here we go and almost there this person's left side.

Is dropping, so this is left tilt pelvis.

So if you've got all of this, you're in good shape here on top of things.

If you're still a bit iffy, it's a good reminder to go back and get this stuff nailed down.

Now let's talk about the thumb.

How did you do with the thumb movement ?

So just click on which of these hands is showing picture of thumb abduction.

Over here on the left, we have a frontal plain view of the movement over here.

On the right, we see a satch.

It'll plain view.

All righty.

Let's see how we're doing.

On and no, a little bit of a night sky going on here.

Now the easy rule is thumb is different than the fingers.

So it's clear that this is a picture of finger abduction.

So when the thumb moves out in the same way the fingers are moving out, that is not some abduction.

Thumb abduction is when the thumb moves away from the palmar surface in the satchel plane.

We're going to keep working on these thumb movements.

This is a heads up.

To get this sorted out and finally, really, what is this movement to the left morning before today's material.

What's going on here ?

This is a road a shin in the foot, around in the frontal plane, around an axis going anterior post cheerier.

And this movement.

I'm sure you've got this one is.

Inversion.

The majority has it nailed down.

So this medial border of the foot is lifting ian inversion.

Still not owe a new movement here, so the shoulder is very mobile.

This is one of our features of being upright tool users is that we can put our hands in a huge work space, and part of that mobility is due to mobility at the shoulder.

So we know that the shoulder does this and we know the shoulder does this.

But what about this ?

What are we going to call this movement ?

So we give that a special name.

It's called horizontal abduction.

So moving away from the midline in a horse plane is horizontal abduction and the reverse movement is add abduction.

Okay, so that's it.

For a little movement review introduced one new movement, and now we're going to start talking about the tissues of the skeletal system, so you will know the types of connective tissues.

First of all, what are connective tissues ?

Then we'll learn what's going on at the cellular level and around the cells.

Extra cellular in each of those connective tissues will look a little bit at what the tissues white look like under a microscope.

Then we're are going to make the link between structure and function of those different tissues will look at some particular categories bones, and then we'll get to movement.

So that's a lot to get through today.

So you might.

When you're reviewing your note, go back to thiss.

I'll have one of these slides in every lecture and see if you can relate to and explain.

Thes points looks a little bit of a review for you post class, so our body is composed four types of tissues.

Today we're interested in the green one over there on the right, so we're made of nervous tissues, epithelial tissue, those air, the linings, the skin and then the mucosa on the inside of the body muscle tissue and then this other one called connective tissue.

So that's what we're focusing on today.

So connective tissue is where bone, cartilage, tendon and ligaments are going to originate from.

So the's tissues air divided up this way because of how embryos develop and each of these tissues air coming from a different part.

The embryo.

So the embryonic stem cells mesen khaimah ll still sells that are in the future going to become connective tissues.

They go from kind of a generic stem cell in the embryo.

They specialize into three different cell types sites here being the route for cells, thie cells that are going to produce the fibers, tissues, fibrosis sites, this cells that are going to produce the cartilage tissues.

Kandra was a route for cartilage.

And finally, the cells that are going to become bone cells, osteo sites.

So we're going to talk about thes three types, specific types of connective tissue.

The fibrosis ites make something called connective tissue proper.

That's a mouthful hundred.

Sites will make the cartilage, and the honesty of sites will make the boat.

So what is in each of these types of tissues are thes cells that you just learned the names.

But these cells make the stuff, make the proteins that, uh you find surrounding them the extra cellular or their stuff around them, the matrix around the actual cells.

So that material is what gives each of these types of connective tissue a very different function in the body.

So, uh, all of these connective tissues in some way connect structures going to focus now on connective tissue proper.

There are many categories dense connective tissue proper.

There is a dense type of connective tissue proper, and they're on dh.

That's what as a and that's what we're going to focus on, and therefore types sub categories of dense connective tissue proper.

And we're going one of those.

So i need to give you the scheme of, in the broader sense in what you might have heard in other anatomy classes about these tissues.

And we're just gonna focus on dense, regular connective tissue.

That's what tendons and ligaments are going to be made out of.

So, for example, we're not going to talk about loose connective tissue that's goingto form the structure that fat cells might live in, for example.

Okay, so dense, regular connective tissue proper is designed to resist being stretched.

So what have we got going in this picture ?

Over here, we've got some dark spaces here that show that air stained to show the nuclei of the cells inside the tissue.

Not very many of them, compared to the amount of stuff around them.

The extra cellular components this state here, and what is that stuff around ?

Sells college and vipers.

So those cells are our building collagen fibers that is packed around this densely and regularly.

Do you see how these college and fibres are parallel to each other ?

That's the regular part of dense regular.

So if you get all of those collagen fibers lined up and parallel like that to each other, if you pull on, one side of this tissue is going to stretch those college and fibers, and they're going to resist being stretched its like a rope.

So this structures that are made out of dense, regular connective tissue, their job is to resist getting pulled apart.

They resist being stretched.

Gosh, that's a really convenient feature in ligaments that air holding one bone, attaching one bone to another.

We don't want our bones to fly apart and tendons attach muscle tissue, two bombs.

The's tissues air going to transmit force in the tension direction.

So if you look under a microscope again, here's a picture what a ligament might look like.

You can see how organized the's are, but they're a little bit wavy when they're unloaded.

If you just laid a ligament on a table and looked at it.

But if you stretch it, look how they they lying right up.

They lose their way, waving us a curly hair.

It's currently until you stretch it right and it stretches out.

So loading means that their force is applied to it.

Inv.

Evo in life.

So these thieves fibers are aligned in a direction in which loads would typically be a line in life, yes.

Good question, and we're going to get to that in a moment, huh ?

Quickly.

They're unloaded until a muscle contracts and pulls on it.

Or until may my bones with respect to each other and then they stretch.

You can actually the opus strip two, thank you.

Feel free to interrupt me.

Okay, so pursuing that line of thought, what you're looking at here is a beagle's name, anthee a sale or the anterior cruciate ligament inside a beagle's name.

The bagel is long gone.

These bones have been potted into a machine that's going toe.

Pull these bones apart in the direction shown.

This experiment was done to find out just how strong the's ligaments were and to find out how much stretch, how much how far they could stretch before they tour.

So this is the curve that matches those pictures.

Here's number one about how far ?

How stretched how elongated a few millimeters in this beagle named, and then as you move along as it gets a cz, time moves on and the bones move farther apart.

What you're seeing here is the resistance force.

How much of a fight those college and fibers air putting up to being pulled apart.

So it looks like the first thing that happens is not much resistance.

Remember those collagen fibers or wavy ?

They're just rating out here.

They're not resisting much.

Then we get into the linear part of the curve where they're fighting with all their might to resist those bones being pulled apart, and then they start fracturing or excuse me tearing at their max load.

So what was interesting about this experiment that was done in the late seventies is that orthopedic surgeons at the time thought that if they opened a joint and saw that some of those fibres were still intact, that no, the structure could still resist.

I could still function, but you can see, even though it looks like it's still intact, it can bear absolutely zero load here.

So let's take that into context and let's look at a human need.

This is a post airier view of a human knee.

And let's assume here's the lateral side and a blow coming at the lateral side of the knee in this direction or a blow coming to the medial side of the knee.

Which direction of load here do you think is going to tear this medial collateral on the side ligaments ?

Person next to you, maybe.

See if you can agree with them.

It's a frontal plain view of the nie post airier.

Okay, let's see how we're doing.

And here we go.

Mostly.

You have seen what you need to see.

This is the job of ligaments.

This is why i like mr attached a bone to prevent the bones from getting pulled apart.

You're exactly right.

If you clip a football player laterally, it's going to displace the knee in the medial direction, and that's going to stretch this medial side of the knee.

And the medial collateral ligament is going to resist that as it lengthened with a blow in that direction.

This's what ligaments do.

Good job.

You have figured it out.

Okay, so now we're going to get back to your question about how much stretches allowed.

Tendons and ligaments resist being stretched by producing force if stretched too much injury curse.

So here's the load here's external force is applied trying to stretch the ligament in the tension direction.

If a clinician grab journey and manipulates it, let's say this is sideways media ladder like we just saw not much resistance.

There's a little bit of laxity or ability for this joint to move if you're playing soccer, maybe here in this region of the curve.

But this is when you get into trouble when that cleat sticks in the turf and the too much force is applied.

So let's talk about how thes collagen fibers are actually organized.

Kind of thie gross structure tendon, for example.

Attendant is going to attach muscle to bones, so there's a very higher arc ical very organized arrangement of structures within attendant.

Here's the whole tendon.

If you grab onto your achilles tendon distantly their post ear e er at your ankle, this is what you're grabbing on to.

That whole structure is wrapped with a type of connective tissue that we call the perry ten in or fb tendon iam upon attendants.

The whole tendon is wrapped in connective tissue.

If we go to the next level, there are bundles in there wrapped with another layer of connective tissue and those bundles air called fast sickles.

They're wrapped with something called the endo tendon am inside the tendon fast ical czar, composed of bundles, fibers, fibers are composed of bundles of sub fibra ls sub vibe.

Rolls are bundles of micro fibers, and finally we get to collagen molecules the tropical colleges so it's bundle after bundle after bundle after bundle.

The bundles i want you to remember about are the fast icka ls, bundles of fibers wrapped with e endo tendon e m.

Thus the red line to draw your attention.

And then the fast ical zehr bundle together to make the whole tempted so very parallel structured hierarchal colin that it's bundles of bundles.

And this slide bite.

Better placed one slight ago, but we'll deal with it now.

How stretchy do you think these things are ?

Any idea are these like rubber bands or they're like ropes.

Can they stretch ?

If you have a ten millimetre long tendon ?

Can it stretch ?

Yeah.

A tenth of a millimeter.

A whole millimeter.

Two millimeters.

How stretchy is this thing ?

What do you think ?

Guess you could think about your own flexibility here.

All righty.

Here we go.

We've got some rope people and some rubber band people, and it turns out, on average, our tenants and ligaments about the max it can stretch is about four percent.

Just a ballpark figure just to give a sense.

How how stretchy there.

Okay.

So we've done dense, regular connective tissue proper.

Made out, uh, fiber sites of the cells.

Those cells produced the extra cellular matrix, which is full of a lot of collagen fibers.

The structures that connect bones to bones were called ligaments.

The structures that connect muscles to bones were called ten.

Now we're going to move on to another type tissue called cartilage.

There's three types of cartilage.

We're going to ignore elastic cartilage.

And talk about highland and fi bro cartilage.

If i broke arledge.

I thought we just talked about fibrosis sites.

So fi broke cartilage is still made by cartilage cells, but fei broke cartilage has a lot of fibers in it in the extra cellular material matrix.

So which one of these is fibra cartilage ?

The one over over at the right.

Where will you concede that it has a lot of collagen fibers in it ?

So highland card lige has the contra sites.

And look at that funny word.

Hakuna lacuna is a space.

So the contra sites air living in a space that happens to be called.

In fiber cartilage.

Those kandra sites are also in spaces, but there's a lot of the college and fiber in the matrix.

Collagen has an awful lot of water in it.

Look, seventy to eighty five percent water.

Cartilage also doesn't have blood vessels in.

So how do those contra sites get their breakfast without a blood supply ?

Delivering it all that fluid is very important in these tissues, so this fluid moves through thie extra cellular space there, and the nutrients are in that fluid.

Do you think these two might have different different jobs ?

One having more fibers in it ?

Anthee answer.

There is.

Yes.

And we'll see where these tissues are and how this associate with their function.

The other thing about cartilage having so much water in it.

What do you know about water balloons ?

They're in compressible.

So if you squish a water balloon in one direction, it bulges out in the in another direction.

Right ?

So the carless tissue is going to be really good at resisting.

Cushioning in joints is where we're going to find cartilage.

This is very different than that dense, regular connective tissue proper that didn't have much water.

I put this question in here.

But there's no way you would know the answer.

Uh, so.

Pick one.

Any one, and then we'll talk about it.

All righty.

Here we go.

And are we a mixed ?

Yeah, look at that.

We're a fifty fifty group here.

So it turns out that these cartilage discs between individual individual vertebra are, you can imagine are both cushioning, but they're also it.

The spine bends is goingto prevent thes bones from coming apart.

Right.

We want something that's kind of resist stretch as well as provide cushioning.

So the answer here is fibra cartilage and i will come back to that many, many times.

So not to worry if you were in the majority camp here of highland.

Here is where we find highland cartilage.

This smooth, smooth smell bluish white covering.

Here of a portion of the thigh bone or femur as it fits into the hip socket or asa tabula.

It's coated with highland cartilage.

It is so smooth.

This essentially makes our joints friction free.

So highland cartilage is going to cushion as those bones bang against each other with every step you take and also provide for friction free motion up these bones as they moved, passed each other inside of joints.

Has anyone in here boned a chicken ?

Yeah.

So many of you may be under the impression that chickens don't have bones in them at all because the meat comes in packages that doesn't have bones.

However, if you buy a whole chicken and maybe you want to cut it into pieces yourself or maybe roasted a whole chicken and you had to serve pizza, vit, vegetarians.

My apologies.

You might have noticed that shiny, bluish white when you get your knife right inside that joint, that shiny, glistening blue and white stuff that's highland carlos, you're looking at.

So how does cartilage do this job of resisting compression ?

It has these molecules in it.

Pro diogo like hands, macro moloch molecules, huge molecules that have both proteins and sugars in them.

So they have a back bone of something called hilal hilal.

Ironic acid.

You can.

Maybe your parents are taking this supplements of some of these words contrite and salt to help with their cartilage.

Here's a backbone.

And then there are these bottle brush shaped molecules attached to that back bone carrot in self wait controi and sulphate.

B brushes on those molecules are negatively charged negative charges don't like to be near negative charges.

So as they get close to each other, they repel each other.

So what happens when you compress a molecule like that ?

Pushes these together ?

They don't like to be together, so they pushed.

So that's where the resistance to compression comes from.

It's ah biochemistry story.

So the contras sites the cells inside cartilage.

Tish, you make these things ?

Matrix is what we call the extra cellular material, the stuff around the cells.

So what do i want you to take away from this ?

Is that important ?

To pay attention to these particular names of mark, not in here in another court.

What i want you to take away is the concept.

The this molecular structure that is going tio explain the ability of this car logic relate it's structure to its function, which is cushion.

Okay, so here's a picture then cartlidge college doesn't just have his bottle brush proteome like can huge molecules in it also is collagen fibers, as both.

So in particular in five bro cartilage like we saw in inter vertebral discs, the bottle brush molecules are going to be really good for preventing for cushioning the spine bones.

But these fibers are goingto when the spine bends is going to help the cartilage from tearing apart as those boot bones move away from each other.

So here's a picture of about the cartilage tissue, interstitial fluid.

That's just the fluid moving through these spaces.

When you load this tissue, there's thie unloaded view.

Here's loaded when you load it.

Some of this fluid moves out into the joint space, so it's putting a slick layer on top of that smooth surface, making it even slippery er like skating.

That's called weeping lubrication.

In some of these joints, this fluid moves in and out, and that's also going to be supplying nutrients, toothy cells as the fluid moves back in when it's unloaded.

So i want to reward those of you who got out a bit to be in class.

So i'm trying something new this semester.

I'm going to ask a question like this in lecture, so i know who's here so that you could get your five points for actually being here.

The reason i'm doing this is not because i believe in taking attendance.

And in fact, i've avoided this for twenty years.

But i think that what goes on in class is actually valuable for your learning.

That's my hope.

That's what i work hard for, and you'll talk to each other in here.

We'll talk to each other in here, so that's that's what i'm working towards, and i and those of you who bother to be here to get the five points.

So what i'm going to do is open up this quiz and leave it open for a couple seconds after i tell you the number, and then i'll close it so that when i download the participation after class all know who was here and who was just at home quick.

So we'll see how this goes, but that's that's what's going to be behind this question of the day.

Are you ready ?

Let's make it a one.

Are you ready to go out ?

So click, click.

Click on that one.

Right it on a piece of paper.

What ?

So this is fun to watch ?

Okay.

Anybody want more time ?

It looks like they're eighty five of us in the room.

Okay, if you didn't make it by the cut off writing a piece paper, give it to me, okay ?

I guess that's an option, too.

All right.

So we've done two out of three tissues.

Now we're going to move on to bone where we'll spend much of the rest of the day.

Phone tissue comes in two parts.

Remember, we had dense, regular connective tissue that we talked about, and we said, depending on what a attached to be a ligament or tendon cartilage.

We talked about two types in here highland cartilage, fibrous cartilage.

And then we're going to talk about two types of bone tissue.

Both of them are made by osteo sites when his cortical bone on the outside and the other is spongy bone or trebek euler boom! So bone has to have something very different in its extra cellular matrix, so it can be rigid so it can support our body weight and protect our vital inner organs or our viscera.

So we have compact bone, which which is the cortical bone.

Which look, it's very compact looking.

And then we have trebek, euler bone that looks to the naked eye like a sponge.

So we're not looking at a molecular level here.

This is naked eye.

If you bust open a chicken bone, you'll see some trebek euler bone inside.

Trebek.

Yah lor is the's spikes of bone are called trebek, uly and compact bone has a very dense structure, which is very regular.

We'll talk a moment, so the stuff around the bones sales look bone also have collagen fibers in it.

It's everywhere.

But of course, it has minerals in it.

And, you know, one of the minerals calcium bone, unlike cartilage or the tendons and ligaments is highly vascular arised.

Lots of blood.

Bone is a very dynamic tissue.

And there i have ah, high metabolic rate.

And so a lot of blood.

So here is a section of a femur, a thigh bone.

This is a frontal plane section we saw a while ago that this portion of the femur, the head of the femur, would be covered with highland cartilage to fit into the hip socket or theus a tab.

And what do you see here ?

You see dance cortical bone covering the entire outside surface, thiss whole bone.

And then here is the trebek euler bone inside.

This trebek euler bone is very, very, very, very important for the strength of our bones, and it accomplishes that strength in a very light weight way.

So let's consider cortical bone here.

Here we've got the microscopic view.

This is a cross section.

Typically, this would be a trans verse cross section.

And what do you see ?

A very regular organization.

You see circles of bone with a dark center.

The dark center is not the bone cell.

That's where there's a vessel a blood vessel up the middle and then bone has laid around in circles around blood supply and, yeah, bones cells themselves.

Also in laguna are the small, dark, darkly state structures here.

So these circular structures are called osteo.

Austrians are on ly founded cortical bone.

Do not find this regular organization bone tissue in trebek.

Euler boom is the hallmark cortical bone very dense.

And as you can see, your little chunks of cortical bone that has been removed from ah, whole bone and blown up here.

So you can see the structure, this blood supply forming the center up thes osteo.

They're also layers of bone around the outside of the whole structure.

Circumferential lem.

Ellie a lem.

Ella is a layer.

The's ost eons are sometimes also called aversion systems, named after the person who identified them originally.

So you can imagine that thes cylinders of bone tissue might be very good at resisting compression.

Slide end to end of these ost johnson.

That's exactly what they do.

Oh, a couple other words here.

There's another connective tissue layer wrapped around bone called the perry osteo.

That word might come up in your reading, their nerve tissues in there.

That's partly why can hurt a lot when you break a bone.

Okay, so let's look at some of the mechanical features of this bone tissue, in particular, the cortical bone with its ost eons in it.

If we load cortical bone parallel to these ost eons, look at how strong it is.

So this is how much force it takes to fracture bone tissue, thes air, the different directions that you could load a bone in.

So the axis there is stress that's just normalized by the size of the specimen.

You think that is force.

So what is bone designed to do house ?

Its strongest.

It's designed to resist crushing compression.

It also resists getting stretched.

When would you stretch a bone ?

Well, i'm doing it right now.

My femur, my thigh bone hasn't an angle in it.

It's not.

It's not just like this.

It's shaped like that.

So as i'm putting weight on the head of my femur here, that that neck of the femur is bending, bending means there's going to be stretching.

Phone also has to be strong in the direction of tension has at.

Remember, there were collagen fibers in there that's going to help resist getting stretched when bones are bent.

If you take a twig and bend it over your knee bones.

They're doing that right.

Forget it.

They get.

Bent.

You can also share a bone if you try to push one part of it, passed another.

If you have a ski boots on and your ski stops on an icy patch but your body keeps going.

The distal end of your lower leg bones are fixed in the ski boot, but the other, more proximal.

Part of the bone is still moving because here, but that's a shearing force on a bone.

So if you want to break a bone loaded in this direction, that's the easiest way to break a bone.

This is the next easiest way to break a bone, and that's the hardest way.

Compression to break about.

This is what your grandparent's bones look like on the right.

This is trebek.

Euler bone.

We're looking at here spongy bone.

So when you luke with osteoporosis with a j, when bone building falls behind bone resort option or if you're an astronaut in space you lose bone mass is what's happening so that extra cellular material starts to disappear.

And this osteoporotic bone is much weaker then healthy young trebek, euler bone we think of osteoporosis, perhaps as postmenopausal phenomenon and women.

It also happens in men.

Menopause accelerates this osteoporosis process.

Okay, so that's it for the tissue today's kind of i got a lot to say to you today about these tissues.

Next time we'll talk about particular bones will start learning actual human bones next time.

But we have to get through.

What are the bones and joints made off today ?

So before there were microscopes and ademas started trying to categorize the bones that they might see.

So they were categorized as long bone, short bones, irregularly shaped bones, bones that looked flat and sesamoid bones a little seed like bones that were found inside attendance.

So here's a question for you.

What type of bones do you think are in your hand ?

Given that description that you just saw ?

They're long bones.

Okay, let's talk.

Kind of a mean question for me to ask, because, my gosh, they look like short bones or not for long.

But the key thing about long bones, the on ly, the defining feature of long bones, is that they have a hollow shots.

Oh, no.

If your hand bones have hollow shafts in them at this point, how is that a fair question ?

So i asked you this question just to draw your attention to the fact that the definition of long bones is not actually how long they are, but whether or not they they're hollow inside.

Turns out even your little tini tip of the finger bones are long bones because they're hollow inside.

Not exactly fair of me to ask you that, but hopefully got your attention.

They're actually short bones.

Long bones, even if they're in your fingers short the little bones in your hand have a shaft that is hollow.

They have proximal and distal ends that are filled with trebek.

Euler bone.

We call this shaft to the dye offices.

And importantly, this is these are important words to learn.

The ends are called a pig to say plural papacies.

One is calling up if assis.

So there's a proximal pip assis and a distal apophis iss and a hollow dia offices in the middle.

It's not really hollow.

It has marrow inside of it.

Yellow marrow restaurant week is next week, and the grange used to serve marrow bones, which would just anybody been to france and eat marrow bones.

Yeah, so that would be slices typically cow long bones and baked.

And you, khun, suck that delicious marrow out of the middle.

If you can get past the texture.

Absolutely delicious.

Okay, so anyway, that's what i need you to learn about these long bones.

A pip theses and dia theses and thehe piff asses are filled with trebek.

Euler bone red marrow is found in the spaces of the trebek euler bone, as opposed to the yellow fatty marrow in the diocese.

Okay, this is actually cesar.

Some images, and of course, you can type in here.

What ?

The portion of the long bone might have inspired this work found somewhere in santa fe.

And you have typed.

I trust the word don't.

And the challenge of spelling begins in this course.

The challenge of spelling will actually be in the lab.

Because in here you won't have to spell anything.

You'll just have to check.

Dia offices without marrow.

Oh, yeah.

Okay.

So let's talk about anatomy before you're born.

You started out as an embryo and then he'd become a fetus.

There's a skeleton in the fetus.

What is this ?

Skeleton made out the skeleton and the fetus begins as highland cartilage.

That cartilage is replaced by bone.

In this four months, three month fetus, you can see bones where the thailand cartilage has been replaced with actual bones tissue.

But then there are parts of bones that aren't yet they're made of highland cartilage still.

I am drawing your attention to this for a number of reasons.

One.

It's absolutely fascinating how bone is developed.

And maybe you'll have a chance to learn more about that.

Um, sometime in your course work here.

Also, we'll be looking at lots of x rays of bones.

And you can you can determine how old someone is by how much highland cartilage is still present in their bones.

Likely no one in this room except me has a fully mature skeleton.

At this point, your bones may not even be finished yet.

So ever.

We talk about a primary center of ossification and a secondary centre of often ossification, typically in the epiphany sees.

So this is the process.

Do not worry about all the words here.

I'm just going to skim over this just so you have an idea.

What ?

This year's.

This is the epic physio plate.

This is the growth plate.

So you remember when you quit growing in high school ?

That's because these plates disappear.

They were replaced with bone.

This is how you're your limb.

Bones grow.

These long bone is the cartilage keeps growing outward, and then it gets replaced with bone behind it.

That's how bones grow.

So we start out with a highland cartilage.

Fetal skeleton first starts in utero, becoming bone going through this transition to bone in a primary asphyxiation center with the arrival of blood supply and them mitchell ery cavity or thiss cavity in dia offices of the long bone and then the secondary oz ification center start.

Some of the secondary ossification centers don't begin until after birth.

Here you see something labeled articular cartilage.

This's highland cartilage.

Sometimes highland carl itches called articular cartilage because we find that at covering the ends of bones inside some joints or articulations.

All right, so now i'm gonna play you a little movie that describes this process.

Don't worry about the details.

This is just how you can understand where bones come from.

So i'm gonna play this.

I have no idea about volume, so i'll be playing with that a little bit.

No volume.

That's where we are.

I have mute on.

That's why.

Game.

Mix in size and not leave a cavity of interconnecting spaces.

You can't possibly.

Here.

For me.

Okay.

I wonder why that ?

Okay, so that's interesting.

I've also put that movie in the module if you want to watch it again for some reason.

There's a different bone growth process for flat bones.

Like the bones in your skull.

That's intra member nous as opposed to end a control.

But thie and a contra ll story is what we need for bones we're gonna be talking about.

Okay, here is the challenge of the day.

Getting on top of the vocabulary that's about to come.

So we've talked about bones now.

Now, let's put them together.

Let's articulate them or make joints between them.

Where the bones come together and bonds come together in two ways.

Where there's motion between the bones and where there's not so much between the bones.

And we call those two things cinar throw, sis or die are throw, sis.

What is our throw, sis ?

Arthritis.

Something about the joints.

That root root word croesus is gonna mean our throw sis is a joint.

Sin means synergy.

Sin the size.

Put it together.

So maybe that will help you begin to remember that the sin are throw sees typically do not have nearly as much motion as these purple joints, the dye, our throw seas, which are the synovial joints in our body that are characterized by a lot of motion.

So the thing here about the dye our throw seizes is that there's a space between their bones.

The sin are throw sees the space between the ends of the bones.

Where they come together is filled with a material.

And the material can either be fibrous connective tissue or cartilage connective tissue.

So now we're going to subdivide those cinar throw sis into fibres, joints and cartilaginous joints.

Based on what the filler material is, the synovial joints have synovial fluid.

Okay.

So now let's dive into these particular types joints.

So the fibrous category of the sin are throw seas.

There are three types of joints that we're going to talk about here.

The filler material is dense connective tissue, and there's no joint cavity.

The's fibers joins our searchers.

We find those in one place between the bones of the skull.

They look like they've been stitched together with searchers.

Those are the suits your joints sin desk most sees we also don't find many places.

Binds the bones.

The two bones of the lower leg together gum posies hold your teeth in their sockets.

So what do you remember here ?

If it's not a tooth, and if it's not a skull bone ?

It's a sindhis.

Most the fibrous connective tissue materials.

And here are examples.

Here's the sindhis moses fibrous tissue.

We do not want the two bones of our lower leg to be moving with respect to get to each other.

We want limited motion.

They're bound with fibrous tissue that's called a sindhis moses.

Here are the suitors that are binding the separate bones of the skull together.

And then the gun poses no, is very particular.

Cartilaginous joints.

We have two kinds of two kinds of cartilage.

So we have a sin contras, iss or synthesis.

Sin con dross is so that's going to tell us that there's cartilage involved because you recognize that route kandra.

There's a little bit of memorization here because you have to remember.

The simple assis is a joint that is fi bro cartilage filled with carl ege.

It'll highland cartilage is associate with the sin con drove.

You've already seen these.

Those enter for t ball joints you already identified were made out libro cartilage.

They're joining the vertebrae together.

So they're the fi bro cartilage type cartilaginous joint.

So these are sympathy.

Highland cartilage bynes the epiphany seas and die a pussy's die emphasis of a long bone.

So strictly speaking, that's a joint and that would be a sin contraceptive.

There's some other particular ones where the bony ribs come together with the highland cartilage and the rib cage.

That's also sin contra assis.

But that's that's detail.

This is important to remember.

Finally, we come down to the dire throw sis, which is the movable joint where there's a joint cavity and that joint cavity is filled with synovial.

The bone ends are lined with highland cartilage that articular cartilage and the's joints have a structure of there's a joint capsule around this space, and they're often ligaments that strengthened that joint capsule.

So let's look at that.

Here is a schematic view.

Here's a long bone with die offices and epiphany assis.

Another long bone.

You can see the sin kong drusus the highland well, this's a mature bone, and this is where the growth plate would be.

Here's highland cartilage covering the ends of each of these bones, the joint capsule with a synovial membrane lining that produces the fluid that fills the space and ligaments that reinforce this capsule and help hold these bones together.

Remember these air mobile joints so we don't want the bones to come apart.

So the ligaments here are helping to restrict the amount of emotion that might be possible in these joints.

Here's a section.

This is a frontal plane section through a shoulder joint.

Here's the upper arm bone or the humerus and the scapula that it's articulating with.

You can see highland cartilage here and the literal space between these bones.

That's the synovial cavity.

You can see cortical bone here and trebek euler bone.

Here is a child's hand.

And i would like you to tell me what kind of joints.

These are not the big space here, but here, here and here.

This is an aspirational question.

You're just learning about these joint types now in the past few minutes.

So if it's not on the tip of your tongue yet, it will be.

So we're just working through this now, so don't be concerned if you're not really sure what you're looking at just yet.

Okay, so i'm gonna point out a few things here.

What are we looking at ?

So thes are the bones in their hand ?

Remember earlier i asked you what type of balances were and many of you thought they were short bones because they look short.

But here you can see that they're long bones because you, khun, see cortical bone hollow inside.

And then here the epiphany sees.

So now you can understand why these are long bones and in fact, your finger bones are also long bones, these little teeny bones because they also have our hollow on the inside with the cortical bone on the outside.

These are the growth plates here.

It's a secondary ossification center for these finger bones.

So it has infused yet.

So there's a remnant of highland cartilage, which you can't see here in x ray appears black and x ray on ly the bony material shows up white here.

So i was asking you to tell me what kind of joints are between the dia offices and pippa seas of thes long bones in the hand.

And the answer is sin contra assis some of you said synovial.

These are the snow viel joints, these big spaces.

Between the bone of the hand and the most proximal of the finger bones.

So maybe you weren't looking so closely it where those arrows went.

Does anybody have trouble understanding why where the snow viel joints are here ?

You were very, very warm, but not quite there on the thumb you can really see this the sin con tro says synovial sin contra assis.

So if we knew when these growth plates closed, typically we might be able to guess how old this child no.

So speaking.

Here we go.

This is a lower leg bone, your tibia or your shinbone the one year old.

By eighteen months, thes secondary ossification centers have started to aasa five.

First grade.

There still a growth plate.

Looks like somewhere between middle school and high school.

Those growth plates are closing.

You khun ?

Remember when you quit getting taller ?

That's when your growth plates closed.

We don't have a hand bone here, so we don't know when the hands mature.

But we do have a fractured tibia here.

This is a former two thirty student who was roller blading and got the role of the blade stuck in a crack in the sidewalk and fell twisting this tibia.

And it fractured with its classic spiral fracture, which is a kala bone fractures when it's intention.

And i want you to tell me now hopes i already told you, um this wasn't two, thirty students.

Uh you can see this splint on here.

How old do you think this person, wass ?

So you have to take the information here and read this x ray.

Do you see anything in this x ray that's related to what you see over here ?

This is a frontal plainview.

Left leg says up here.

Ap.

So this is a shot in along an anti air post year axis perpendicular to the frontal plane.

Oh, it's nine.

Fifty five are supposed to be anyway, this person wass likely all this growth plate is almost closed, so i would put them closer to eighteen years old rather than closer to the middle school age.

Okay, so i will finish this next time we'll start talking about actual bone.

Um, thank you for your hard work this morning and enjoy the snowflakes.