Find the clock today s o i will move quickly what is happening in our lives when i go to the class relevant okay, here we go so today is monday january twenty second, we're going to do shoulder girdle and then we'll finish up the lower extremity on wednesday.

The following wednesday the last day in january, will be our first examined here.

Kid here.

Oh, okay.

Turn up the volume.

Let's see what have i got mike's on how's that that's louder ?

Thank you for letting me know ok, uh so back to wednesday, january thirty first so that first exam will be on everything up through the bones of the upper extremities.

And that exam will be multiple choice.

That exam will cover material that is discussed in lecture.

So if you have been doing the required reading, you will have encountered a material that is in the book, but not in lecture that is for your interest in anatomical enjoyment on lee what is in the book ?

Excuse me only what is what we discuss here and lecture is what would be on the exam ?

Also, do not think that the exam will be, here's a picture.

What is this landmark ?

No questions like that whatsoever the questions will be.

The elbow joint is an example of a sin contraceptive ce synovial joint etcetera.

It might be those s words yes, please.

And if there are pictures, it will be to demonstrate a movement which you will need to name or some picture from lecture related to the tissues.

So how will your knowledge of an anatomy anatomical landmarks be assessed ?

I will ask questions like the electra non process, which of the following landmarks is most distal elektra non process.

Meet philip con dial etcetera, so you'll have to know the anatomy and have it in your head in order to be able to answer questions about.

Time is not an issue historically on my exams, people do not run out of time.

The word on the street.

I think is challenging, but fair for the any questions.

Okay, so let's go to today and let's see if i have any better luck getting started here.

Already so we're continuing with the spine before we can get to the upper extremities, let's see if i could get something done here here is a scan of a vertebra and i want you to me which region of the spine this vertebra belongs to and the only way you can know that is by looking at the orientation of the pacific joint that is shown there.

Let's see how you're doing anybody.

Want more time so you got this already, and you have decided it's either the drastic or lumbar vertebra.

Let's talk about that this to me looks like these for set joints the articular surfaces are facing medial laterally right.

And that is the definition of lumber.

Okay good job.

That was a hard question.

Welcome to monday morning already.

So let's look at the ligaments that are going to control actually going to constrain movement in the vertebral column.

So we've got a satchel view here of some vertebrae and way have anterior over here body post your yer over here spineless processes and the center of rotation is about inthe e for tea brel for raymond, so ligaments that air anterior are going to stretch when i hyper extended ligaments on the post year aside, i'm going to stretch hi.

So if you just look at the actual ligaments has shown here in this lovely drawing what are we looking at here ?

We're looking at bodies.

They've been cut with got a sagittal section here you're all experts on this after i finished the anatomy assignment so you can see the trebek euler bone in tried these vertebral bodies cortical bone on the superficial surface of all of the bodies you skins tv introverted brel disc with its nucleus pole post and annual iss fibrosis surrounding that nucleus paul poses together this forms a cartilaginous joint between the vertebral bodies a card gladness joint of the fi bro cartilage type which we call a simplicity.

So this is representing ligaments and a lot of ligaments here post your ear looks like only one ligament anterior.

That's because the loads in life are in anterior direction gravity manipulating with their upper extremities lifting.

We put a lot load post ear ear, so that's where we're going to need.

Some help in constraining hype reflection, all right.

So now we're flipped so the bodies are anterior on the left and let's name the ligaments.

There is a long one that runs down superior inferior on the anterior aspect of the vertebral bodies.

We call that the anterior longitudinal because it's long on the post cheerier aspect of the vertebral body is a long posterior ligament called the posterior longitudinal, then in three ligaments that we confined on the vertebral arch.

The easiest one to name is one called inter spine is because guess what it runs between spine is processes.

There is a super ous finest ligament runs from post your aspect of spine is process to post your aspect of spinal process soup broth finest and then the kind of an elusive one called the ligament tum flavor that runs between adjacent laminar.

And it's kind of yellowish because it has more elastic elastin fibres innit proportionally that is typical, so it has relatively maura last in two collagen fibers than other ligaments.

So those are our finds five spying ligaments to learn about here is a picture.

This is a frontal plain view, viewed from the post cheerier aspect, so we're looking at the steer e er aspect of vertebral bodies here.

The pentacle have been sliced through frontal section through those medicals and the piece has been taken and rotated this way for you to look at the.

It's been cut off so now we're looking at the post cheerier aspect r anterior view of this post ear ear piece of the vertebral arch.

So this is a so called lamin ectomy, where the lamb inna are cut off to expose the spinal column.

The spinal nerves that might be lying in this for tea, bro for raymond.

So this view shows you beautifully the ligament of flavor colored yellow here, so you can see how it runs from lamb mina to adjacent lamin a vertebra to vertebra the whole point of going through this particular dissection is to show you the ligament, um flavor you can appreciate where it is.

There is in the cervical spine a specialized portion of the super a spine ist ligament and expansion if you will so in the post your aspect of the neck nickel nuclei is this super a spine ist ligament gets a special name liga mentum new kai you could imagine this ligament might be important in a grazing animal that hangs its head from a long neck teo grass but still present han ourselves.

You can see the vertebral artery traveling through the trans verse for raymond in the trance verse processes only the cervical vertebrae.

So where where aware is that post ear ear longitudinal ligament in this trans verse section.

Through some axial skeleton boats.

Figure out what you're looking at first, we've got a jurassic vertebra here articulating with some ribs trance first view.

All righty here we go.

Beautiful work beautiful work the posterior longitudinal ligament is on the post your ear aspect of the vertebral body good job.

This is a picture of someone with i would say several standard deviations away from the typical amount of flexibility.

No, and i want you to tell me what is it ?

What is particularly ?

Extensible and individuals body.

What ligament is stretching the most here this looks like early, twentieth century wallpaper not my date this photo already so you have decided it is anterior longitudinal.

Good work because this is a picture where he his buying his hyper extended considerably, which means that that's going to be stretching a ligament on the anterior side, and the only one on the anterior side is going to be that aunt anteria launch.

As much as it might give you a bit of discomfort to look at this image.

Let's consider if this supports or refuse what we talked about last time regarding motion and different regions of the spine, which regions of the spine i have limited flexion extension compared to the other regions of the spine your ex, but we did see well ability in the sagittal plane in the cervical region mobility in the lumbar region and then not so much in the jurassic.

Let's look at this.

We can find that hyperextended cervical spine hyperextended lumbar spine hardly an e curvature in the harass explain.

To rest today.

Maybe it's not just fiction the result of those the mobility due to the orientation.

Those beset joints okay, so let's talk about what can go wrong.

We've all heard about slipped discs, anatomically we call them herniated discs and let's talk about why a herniation is where a structure protrudes bulges through a wall.

We're looking at transfers view here of a lumbar vertebra again, i'm seeing those cassettes facing in this case media lee laterally ingeles fibrosis nucleus paul posters then you can see the spinal cord in the vertebral for raymond with spinal nerve roots exiting the inter burti bro for raymond here but look what has happened.

The annual assed fibrosis has ruptured and the nucleus paul poses is protruding herniated ing into the space in the inter vertebral for raymond.

That means that the nucleus propose iss is impinge.

Ing pinching pushing on compressing spite on earth.

Ouch! Not good.

That's what a slipped disc looks like.

It's in fact, a herniation.

So why does that happen ?

Here's a picture of emotion segment in the vertebral body.

This just means that it's fixed.

So on ly, the more superior vertebral body is moving with flexion.

What happens center of rotation here selection is in the direction of the arrow.

The post ear ear aspect stretches wealthy anterior aspect compresses so thes college and fibres are being stretched posterior lee and the nucleus pulp inside there pushes.

Oh, and is this is resisting the nucleus proposes bulging this way, so it bulges in the direction of compression, which is in the anterior director.

Something else that can happen that can interfere anatomically with a healthy life of thes.

Spinal nerve roots is arthritis and you've seen in here that arthritis can present with some laying down bone in it and normal locations bone spurs in the joints, but bone can get laid down here bone spurs and into that protrude into thie.

Enter for tea bro for raymond spaces and that also can pinch the spinal nerves.

The name for this is spinal stenosis you might come across in some of your reading.

This word stenosis a narrowing so how do you know this is happening ?

You know this is happening because you have muscle weakness in extremity.

Typically the lower extremity if it's a lumbar spine issue, because those are the nerve roots that control the muscles of the lower extremities.

Maybe they'll be pain or team glowing in the extremities and the reason for that is, there's a well known distribution of thes spinal nerve roots from particular the's nerves have very specific structures that they receive information from and send controls to with regards to muscles in the skin.

So this is the distribution of each of these nerves, so if you have an issue here.

Your neurologist is going to tie that is going to examine what level of the spinal cord is supplied, supplies that area and look there for pathologies.

This is not going to be on the exam, but this helps you understand why the anatomy of the spine might present in an issue somewhere else in the body.

Let's talk about fractures of the spine and here's one called spawned a low life.

This is something that can happen in gymnasts wrestlers, and that is a fracture.

In the vertebra in the pars inter particularities well, that just means between the superior and inferior articular process is and that's called spawned a low life isis or the scottie dog fractures.

Here's the cute little scottie dog.

That's how that fractures found so that fracture is going to be at the neck of a scottie dog.

If you have a fracture there besides, having pain what that means now is that the two vertebrae that are that articulate between the they're articulate they're that vertebra is now free to move translate in the anterior posterior direction, and when vertebra starts to move to slip.

It's called sponder low life pieces.

No more of those s words how i remember it is the longer word happens after the shorter word right spawned, a low lice iss must occur is before spawned a low lifes thesis.

The slippage can occur so that could be grated from the normal to minor too, very severe.

And here's what it might look like.

Where are we ?

Here's the sacrum this must be hell five.

This must be all four.

So here slippage between l four now five and here slippage between the sacrum and i'll fight so it's young at athletes and old adults who are most vulnerable to this.

The athletes have repeated high compressive load, or perhaps some hereditary abnormality in the shape of the vertebra.

But older adults are at risk for a different reason, which is degenerative changes that is degeneration of the structures with time.

Man well that wasn't very helpful.

Where am i here ?

I am.

That's what i intended to do so those in the fractures and this slide has slipped out of place so a little random quiz here on the ligaments to jerk you back to fifteen minutes ago.

I've had a little spawned a low lifes thesis of the ordering of my slides here.

Spot on can you answer this ?

If you don't remember draw a trans first view of a verdict that can help you sort this out.

If you don't want to take the time now, i strongly recommend that you take um sometime before january thirty first.

All right here we go and we have an order and i'm seeing big numbers here on the diagonal so that tells me things are looking pretty good.

However, we've got an anomaly over here in the post ear ear longitudinal ligament man sadly i don't have a picture too show you the correct order.

Here are you okay with that can you go back and look at one ?

Really what made a draw you want me to drop already we've got a request for drawing so i am going to you.

Thanks mutes the light.

Yes, that mutes the light i'm gonna turn on the lights.

I'm going to lift the screen and i'm going to draw if there is anything here to draw with and there is so i'm going to draw a for everybody i am going to add some medical.

I am going to adult lamma.

I'm going to add a finest process.

I'm gonna add trans verse there is my vertebra done and so now is this colored chalk ?

No look i'm going to draw the anjin anterior longitudinal there i'm going to draw the post ear ear longitudinal here i'm going to draw the ligament of flavor here thank you.

What am i leaving off inter spine issa and super spy nous.

That means oh, i haven't practice body body inter vertebral medical medical transfer process and finest prime.

I'll put a, uh and they're my articular from you buying it.

So here is where has mine inter spinal ligament and here is where i have my super spy nous done.

Okay, well i'm trying.

Boom.

Okay, let's draw lateral flexion in the spine let's draw that figure.

Motion segments.

What do i know about ladder reflection in the three regions of the spine ?

Same or different.

About the same or different.

Saving it for next weekend.

Okay.

Pretty much the same got one exception.

And what is our exception ?

Where do we not have lad reflection ?

Dan's hint what articulation is this c one c two way don't want to break off that odom toy process will see one it was our exception.

Flexion and extension you told me this earlier.

Gonna move plastic down little bit you said oh, a lot of flexion extension in the cervical region so much in the jurassic and this is what we observed in our back bender right done.

Okay, so now we just have rotation when i said, draw these curves.

This is what i'm talking about when i said draw those graphs this is this is all i'm talking rotate where do we have rotation ?

We have rotation the cervical spine yes.

Do we have rotation in the jurassic spy ?

Yes, we do where's that limit lumber ?

We have two exceptions up top.

Where is this rotation happening ?

This huge amount of rotation where is that happening ?

He wants you to so c one and c two with all of that extra.

That's specialization is for this and the price of that rotation is this.

There's one other exception in rotation.

Soup most superior right.

There's not much rotation at the a little okay done.

That's it.

That's what you need to know.

Now i have going to get chocola over everything.

Do you feel a little bit better now about those regions of the spine and their motion ?

That's it.

So now all we have left to talk about our breathing movements and how do i unused pressing here ?

Sure the picture as mute.

I don't want to meet the picture i want on you.

There is okay, so let's talk quickly about movements of the jurassic age when you breathe here is this view of cost over t brawl joints one between the head of the rib and the body of a vertebra thoracic vertebra one between the angle of the rib and the trans verse process to our two cost.

Oh, vertebral articulation.

Here's the satchel views where you can see the ligaments that are supporting synovial joint here, and this is also a synovial joint.

All of these are no deal, so those ribs can move a bit with respect to the vertebra.

And here's how they do it so we need when we breathe.

The point of breathing is to expand the size of the lung, so that the air pressure changes so the heir can go in where the air is pulled in or the air is pulled out.

So the jurassic cage increases and here to post cheerier p.

Put your hand on your sternum and take a forced inspiration.

You can feel that moving and of course, you can feel no the expansion when you breathe deeply in the medial lateral direction as well.

These are classic descriptors of moments of how the river no the true ribs move like well, the most superior true ribs are described is moving like a pump hand all.

That's where the rotation here ends up lifting the sternum, which you can feel when you put your hand there where as the more inferior ribs twist.

So it's like how a bucket handle moves with respect to a bucket to increase that medial lateral dimension.

And we can't spend much time in here talking about cana matics of those movements.

That's it.

Looking for this slide way back when what i was talking about a herniated disk.

I don't know what happened here with the order of my slides this morning they were in order last time.

So what we're looking at here is as a neurosurgeon or an orthopedic.

Surgeon would see that most distal most inferior part of thie spinal cord after performing a lamb in ectomy.

So the laminar have been lifted off to expose these nervous tissues.

And you can see here what a bulging or herniated disc looks like and how it's pressing on spinal nerve poster row laterally.

That is it bulges to the side and posterior lee and not directly posterior any idea why what structure is here that might be reinforcing the most posterior medial aspect posterior longitudinal ligament, so the bulging happens to either side lateral to the post year longitudinal ligament wow, okay, so would you like me to move those out of order slides back to the portion ?

I think i'll do that it won't i won't mess with your note you'll stop your notes, but when you're going back through this i'll put those two slides back in their logical place already so we're done with the spine and let's move on into the ridiculous skeletor.

So there's a lot that we will learn.

We will learn about a bone named the clavicle.

The scapula and the humerus will look at the joints between them.

The ligaments that helped too keep them together and then we'll look at some particular injury.

So where where aware do you find a joint between the axial skeleton and the fendick euler scallop and here we go.

You two choices looks like we have a cluster here and we have a cluster here hello! The ap ridiculous skeleton starts here your shoulder girdle belongs to your upper extremities.

The axial skeleton are the bones.

We just talked about skull vertebrae ribs sternum this bone is not part of the axial skeleton.

Therefore, this is the correct location for the joint between the axial skeleton and the ap indicator skeleton.

The east joints are joints within the ap ridiculous skeleton just a heads up.

Already the word shoulders.

Ambiguous, it could mean the shoulder girdle all of these bones, or it could mean that other point that got so many clicks on it in the previous slide out here so we call the shoulder joint this one between the bone of the upper arm humorous and it turns out the scapula and we call the shoulder girdle the two bones, the clavicle and the scapula.

Which of these views do you think is anterior left to right ?

On the sacred.

We saw the bumpy stuff posterior lee and smooth.

The smooth surface anterior lee got anterior on the left here and posterior on the right.

So let's learn about this bone called the clavicle the collarbone he's got a sternal and guess where that would be towards the sternum and on a chromium lend the other end.

We don't know yet why it's called the ambulance.

It's got a con oid to brickell.

A cubicle is like something that sticks out.

It's a process, and it must be the shape of a cone and then a subclavian group sub clave ian under the clavicle.

So this groove is likely going to be on the inferior.

Asked feel your clavicle.

Okay, this is important because if you could get what you feel to match up with what you know about the clavicle you'll never have to memorize anything.

So you start here at the maneuvering of your sternum and then, on either side of that, there seems to be a notch in a pony play of the two no need for true princes on either side of that clavicle those air this journal ends nobby of your clavicles.

Then when you move laterally your clavicle bows out anterior, lee it's convex and tear, really big curve.

And then it takes one eighty and the curve review reverses a little curve where it's now con cave anterior lee before reaches most lateral word extension sternal end con cave anterior lee reverses curvature khan convex auntie really now con cave anterior lee before it at its lateral.

Most point articulates with thehe chrome ian of the scapula.

Thus the chromium end here so here we go sternal end medial a chromium and lateral con oid tuber cole and subclavian.

So this is the same clavicle and then just flip one hundred eighty degrees to expose the other surface.

So which of these surfaces is superior when you feel your clavicle is ooh, the or bumpy, it is smooth.

So the superior must be this top one, the bump key sir inferior you can't feel that so this con oi tuber cole, this cone shaped process lateral and here is the subclavian groove on the inferior surface like the sub costal groove on the inferior aspect of the rib for the same reason to protect vessels and nerves pass in that group already so here is a little display of some different clavicles.

And what do you see you see ?

They're different.

Some people have very curvy one.

Some people have straighter one.

Some people have big ones.

Some people have little ones which surface are we looking at here are we looking at the inferior or superior surface ?

Is it bumpy or smooth bumpy, so we're looking at the inferior surface.

Here are con oid two pickles and here are subclavian group, which end is ladder role at the top of this picture at the bottom is that conroy tuber cold medial or lateral.

Lateral.

Okay, look at that you can orient club.

Let's feel your scapula.

Okay, so your shoulder there's this flat bony plates that's your chrome ian now walk.

A long time probably leaving white chalk here.

Your fingers are walking from this flat bony place.

There's a point here and then your fingers air walking all along this landmark.

It's post here you identified.

This is post ear ear.

Previously, that's the spine of your scam.

Okay, so we know about the chromium.

We know the spine, but look at all the rest of this.

We have to find bassem foss i something superior to the spine something in fear to the spine something deep, too.

Scapula a medial and lateral border a superior and inferior angle and then these two strange words a process cora coid not core annoyed like on the mandible, but the core a coy and then something called the glen roy foster.

So you looked at this bone before class and i think he took a quiz on it.

So what can you find here ?

What do you know about the scapula ?

How are we doing here ?

We're doing well anybody want more time.

Okay.

So you've done your work and here's everything labeled for you inferior angle so we know howto orient superior inferior here's thie inferior angle.

We know the chromium must be superior on the superior aspect, and it's also lateral so this must be the medial border.

So there's a lot of action here on the lateral side of the sketch.

Now, let's see what you can do with the other surface.

This is now the anterior, sir of the scapula you don't see the spine.

This is a side that's going to be nearest to the ribs.

Right you were still working.

This side is a little bit more challenging.

You can use what you know about what these words i mean processes going to stick out a faucet does not you know where in fear and ear inferior are.

So the big job here is which fossa is which, and let's see how you've done.

Sub scapular fossa is what we call this this deep surface or the anterior surface of the scapula nice and smooth.

The superior angle is as you would expect in the opposite end of the scapula than the inferior angle.

The core annoyed process sticks out.

It's actually protruding in the anterior direction from the plane of the scapula and the lateral border is opposite to the medial border, which you identified previously.

So this big news here is this surface called the gl annoyed fossa.

And that's where your upper arm bone is going to articulate with captain.

This surface right here is the articulation surface for the upper arm bone, and let's take a sagittal view of the scapula and here i would like you to think about what are we looking ?

Sad, little plainview ?

Are we looking at lateral from a lateral perspective or from a medial perspective ?

Where do you find that glen oid fossil lateral or medium ?

Where's your arm lateral ?

So you're looking into the gl annoyed fossa so you're.

This is a looking from lateral towards medial here.

Okay, few more seconds.

And here we go.

And you've got this one clear so that sub scapular fossil you really understand why it's faucet till you see this view, you could begin to appreciate the size of this articular surface for the upper arm bone or the humerus can see this super spy, nous fossa and the spine here.

So what can you feel of your scapula ?

You can feel the chrome ian.

You can feel the spine.

Can you feel me well, the inferior angle ?

Can you feel anything else ?

You can actually help the coroner coid press so to do that.

Fine.

Let's see what we got here chrome in a chromium end of the clavicle of a bump move immediately on your clavicle and where that curve is reversed, then jump off your clavicle into a space poke around that there's something hard is very uncomfortable feel that's actually your core quite process.

When you're feeling it, you're pushing through your picture alice muscle and pushing the pectoral muscle against this cork.

Oid process.

That's why it's uncomfortable.

All right so do you have grown up clavicle and scapula well, most likely you do the secondary ossification centers appear in puberty and their they're closed typically buy twenty years old, so most likely you're getting close to having and fully fused scapula.

But maybe some that air still dragging a bit.

They're sub district already.

Let's go and look at this other bone involved in the shoulder joint and that's the upper arm bone or the humerus.

It's got a head.

It's got a neck.

It's got tube, rickles big and small.

It's got groove.

It's got con tiles.

It's got fb con dials.

So these air bumps just above the con dial sum's fancy words some boss i and a ridge let's let's go learn this.

Can you feel your humorous easiest place to feel you're humorous is at your elbow this bump right here the bony bump you can feel just above that is just proximal to the crease in your elbow.

Is your here's the crease in your elbow.

Is the media lab pecan dial that's a medial bump on the humorous says easy to feel another place you can feel your humorous.

He is approximately so if you press here very approximately, you can actually feel of rid a little indentation in the bone.

There you can feel this group very proximately.

This is the other very palpable landmark distel and medial proximal and anterior.

You can see the humerus here articulating with the glen oid fossa of the scapula.

While we're here look how big this articulating surface of the humerus is and how small relatively the articular surfaces on the scapula illinois fosse's kind of flat.

So what keeps your arm bone from just falling off ?

Was it gravity ?

Just pulling this arm blown off ?

There's not much bony integrity, keeping that joint intact so we will be looking for important ligaments and of course, musculature.

So let's do the work of the anatomy of the humerus what surface are we looking at here while i see that groove and i could feel that groove on the anterior aspect, so this must be anterior.

So what do you know about the humerus ?

And you can use your knowledge of anatomical words to help you navigate this book.

What do you know and not know right now ?

I wouldn't expect you necessarily to know this yet.

But hopefully your knowledge is growing.

We are working.

There's a long list here.

Okay.

And here we go.

Uh all labels hat is nice and smooth.

The articulating surface.

This is the inter inter tubercular groove between the two prickles.

These must be the two tuber calls, a big one, the greater and a smaller one, the lesser deltoid to ferocity how you going to remember that where's your deltoid muscle ?

Where do you suppose your deltoid muscle attaches to your humorous deltoid ferocity is your deltoid muscle lateral ?

Yep, so is the deltoid now distal is where we have to do our work.

The so called con dials of the humerus have special names.

One is the capitulation and others the tro clia.

Here's what you need to remember one of them looks like a head happy a head, a rounded knob like you like the head of the humerus, the capitulation and the other one looks like a bow tie.

The truck leah looks like a bow tie.

And there is a fossa called the core annoyed fawcett.

We're back to chor annoyed again.

We had a cor annoyed process on the mandible.

Now we've got a core annoyed boss for a depression on the and interior distal humerus.

So let's keep doing the work now we've flipped this bone around.

We're looking at the post ear e er aspect of this humorous.

And life is a little easier.

Here this post eerie er aspect in terms of what the job is today.

Okay, here we go and let's look at everything labeled head faces immediately towards planetoid fossil of the scapula the greater to brickell.

We can see how big that is something called the surgical neck will talk about this a little bit later.

This is where the humorous tends to fracture thus called surgical neck deltoid to brasi.

We've seen before and the medial epic con dial you have palpate it on yourself.

We've seen it before and where there's a medial.

There's often a lateral the lateral epic kanda.

You can't feel as easily on yourself because it is buried in in muscle, belize deep to muscle bellies and a fossa on this side called the electron on so that's the job that we have to do with respect to the humerus before we leave here.

Can you tell me ?

Can you find the anterior distel medial humorous can you orient phone which surface is anterior which and his distal, which side i need y'all.

All right here we go made a choice.

And we have some debate so i'm going to take the i'm not gonna put the answer up yet.

Excuse me that was kind of exciting.

It was epic all right.

So what is it ?

The on ?

Ly hope in hell that you can tell what the anterior surface of this bonus this is confusing there we go that groove tells you anterior you can feel it.

You can see it that's anterior.

So now we're working on li with this top picture.

What do we know about distal while we know the head is proximal so it must be this end ?

And medial.

They've got two clues for medial.

The media leper con dial is more prominent than the lateral a pecan dial, but out of the human's faces media lee because it has to articulate with the scapula.

So the trick here the only you khun logic everything out.

The only thing you need to remember is this group his anterior and we all have mature humor.

I in here, uh, we hear of the closure date of the second area papacies on this long bone and here you see something else the anatomical next typically the the the official line is neck on many bones, so the anatomical neck is here as opposed to the surgical next, which is a bit more distant.

This is a detail, but this is where the the bone tends to fracture more off.

What's the anatomical name of the shoulder joint ?

Glenn, no humor role.

When you say the shoulder joint it could mean a lot of things.

But glenn, oh, humor rolled joint means one thing the joint between the humerus and the gl annoyed fossa the scapula so while you are doing that, i am going to jump in here.

Or not.

I have to i have to do something ugly here, um check facebook for a moment if you would like i will be back with you shortly and i am going yeah, ad in here my neglected question of the day.

Okay, so back to our world type in the number twenty seven.

Okay, thank you.

And look at how or three okay so anyway.

Thank you.

Ugh! Those points are harder and i want you to get them.

Okay, so let's talk about the other joints we have, uh, just named the glen oh, hugh meral joint but their other butler to other bones here and they have joins his well, so we have a stern okla vehicular joint which you identified early on as where the axial and ap indicate our skeletons come together stern oh, cliff vic euler joint we have a joint between the scapula and the clavicle a joint between the scapula and the humerus, which we just named flannel hugh meral and that a fake joint where this scapula ride over the jurassic, uh, cage white joints are in quotes.

There is because it's not an anatomical joint, but we talk about movement of that bone with respect to the body, so it's a fake joint all right.

So let's talk about the sternal clavicle er joint that you identified earlier.

You know a lot about the movements of that joint already.

You know that the clavicle can elevate and depress.

You know that it can protract retract and so that it's happening at a synovial joint between the sternum and the clavicle and that joint like the temporomandibular joint has a little fiber college college pad inside called a meniscus.

It is synovial joint the ball and socket type.

There are a lot there's a lot of mobility at that.

Joint the two movements i just named and the clavicle can actually twist a little bit around its long axis.

Classic synovial joint.

And can you please.

Name one pick one name, one quite a number and a name.

If it was your job to name them knowing what you know about anatomy and remember that we're not using the discoverers name any longer to name, and it says you can't name it by your name.

Come up with another anatomical name for these ligaments.

Okay, so what have we got we have intercostal between the ribs interclube vehicular between the clavicles sternal clavicle.

Er if i broke, that's not it cost okla vehicular.

Okay, so do you see an intercostal ?

Ligament there do you see a ligament that runs between two ribs ?

I actually don't.

This is the clavicle.

This is a rib, so this would be a ligament number four's a ligament between the clavicle and a rib, so it might be better named cost oh club vehicular ligament two and three are between the clavicle and the sternum.

So those air likely stern oh, cliff, picula her ligaments one is on the anterior side of the joint, the other on the post cheerier, and then one someone named as between the two clavicles inter club vehicular.

The point of this exercise is so that you could realize how easy the names of these ligaments are because if you know the names of the bones you know the names of the league done, check something easy.

Finally all right.

Some of you may have done this.

Some of you may have broken your clavicle help anybody in here broken you have a bump or is it smooth ?

Some.

So all of that discussion of is your clavicle smooth.

You check out the unaffected side, sometimes when they hell they heal with remnant of okay, this chromium club vehicular joint really there's a joint between distal end.

Choose me the lateral end of the clavicle thehe chromium lend and the chrome ian of the sternum scapula i'm rushing yes, and it allows a little bit of movement.

Actually, it's a no veal.

Surprisingly on it.

The two bones just glide past each other.

It doesn't wrote so much so we have a non axial synovial and it's important in allowing a lot of motions the joint now i told you previously that you could feel this anybody remember the name of this cora kuwait process and here's why because we tend to think of it you've seen the scapula as if it lies in the body like would lie on the table cousin it's at an angle at a forty degree angle with respect to the and here body and so that cora coit process you can feel because it's protruding there inferior to the clavicle if any of you have done upper extremity rehab sometimes a physical therapist will say do the movement in the plane of the scapula hopefully the physical therapist is isn't saying that to you because you have no idea what the plane of the scapula is physical therapist said that to me but that's that's what they're going to mean a slightly rotated forty degrees anterior i see uh so we're gonna stop here today and not mean these ligaments until next time but we're in good shape with just a little bit more work to do on the shoulder joints.

And then on wednesday, we're going to move into the bone the distal upper extremity see, then.

Different.

So play the game great hey! So i can't be you, but i can show you some of the features so to this thing.

Here no you have on this, but you get something you can fill in all your pre class quizzes if you slide say it take it.

So.

Go through right nothing d'oh.

Is anathema, no like now and that what this no go and just and and so that could help.

You wanted to i am what no with rick, it's so you.

So what you you're not great.

See you.

Honey.

There you are so i.

Look at yourself.

Bearing oh, i know what tina do you know ?

What section you're in ?

It might even be visible, so because this is pretty great sure.

Here you are now dashboard, and this's what great if you go into great good, no, it's this many points.

In the court.

And so this one is so it shows you that this is where you submit.

One.

Oh, no it's available.

The veil subside no, i'm sorry, i'm sorry so you could do that.

And then this will show you wait.

I suggest that you start doing right yeah.

And their own now later there.

So.

It comes down to leo.

We're going to be cos.

You did say i was going to wait.