Be my micah's on now can you hear me ?

Okay, ok, good thank you if it doesn't work stop me.

Okay, good morning, everyone! Welcome to yet another single digit morning those who love winter are having an excellent one those who hate winter just wait for it spring will come in may sometime.

Okay, that's what i've learned since living in michigan, don't even think about it until may all righty.

So i answered a lot of questions out there rob about the anatomy marge assignment any others before we get going because it is due today.

Already you know where you can find me if they pop up, it's not due until midnight, so i keep my eyes on my email.

Q yeah right.

So let's get going.

We're going to finish talking about the details of some of axial skeleton features, and then we're going to move into perhaps a more interesting notion of function of those structures, so let's go and finish our job.

We ended up last time talking about features of the cervical vertebrae, and now we're talking about jurassic vertebrae, so these are the vertebrate that are going to articulate that is formed joints with the ribs.

And at the last moment of the last lecture you identified locations on the jurassic vertebra where those articulations might be five found.

So let's name them.

We give particular names to those articular surfaces on the jurassic vertebra they're called, articular facets or faces or surfaces that form joints.

Thus are turk articular.

They're found in two places on the bodies of the thoracic vertebrae and on the trans verse processes and you identified those locations last time.

So here's a transfers view and a sagittal view and you identified thes articular for sets last time now why this particular word demi beset that means partial beset and we see and a whole one here and a partial one here.

So depending on what level of the jurassic vertebrae for the, the rest of spine you were at the locations and size of these articular facets change.

But that's where the demi facet term comes from when it's just a petite, a little cassette and then the name given to these articular surfaces on the transfers processes are called costal, cassettes white costal.

You might be thinking coastal.

You might be thinking warm beaches, but in fact, without theeighties air costal, not coastal.

And it is the root word for river.

So where the ribs are going to articulate with fur.

If we look at jurassic vertebrae from a post ear e er view in the frontal plane, it looks kind of like a giraffes face, so you might look for that with what i used to call antenna when i was a little kid, but i think they're actually horns.

Not antlers on the giraffe and ears and then the long face giraffe.

What are these things ?

These look to me like articular cosette faces what articulates here ?

What are these things i used to call antenna as a kid ?

Superior articular facets.

This is where the thoracic vertebra is going to articulate with e inferior articular process is atf assets of the next most superior vertebra wow.

Did i cram in a lot of any topical language in that state ?

So if we look at the whole set of jurassic vertebra, they might look like this one is most superior, so t one is going to articulate with c seven and as we move inferior lee through the thoracic vertebra all the way down to number twelve.

It's looking different.

T twelve looks quite different than t one, and it's an anticipation of what a lumbar vertebra is going to look like.

And here they are.

I've got five of these.

They're robust thick.

What's happening in the lumbar vertebra the whole weight of the more superior body is going to be resting on these lumbar vertebra, so they're getting heftier as we move inferior early in the spine.

How do we know we're looking at a lumbar vertebra ?

It does not have only for tea bro for raymond.

Like in the excuse me.

Yes trans verse for raymond in the cervical spine the holes that we find in the trans verse processes of a cervical vertebra does not havethe.

Um does not have any articular facets for vertebrate for ribs.

I hope it's not could be one of those days where i must speak.

You know you're looking at a lumbar vertebra because it does not have transfers for raymond in the transfers processes, and it does not have articular facets for vertebra.

Did it again for for ribs costal ?

Besets percents it doesn't have those things so therefore by definition, it is a lumbar vertebra.

They're large and hear the words that i was struggling to come up with before.

But twelve is also kind of being.

So that's not the definitive diagnosis.

No transfers for raymond no articular processes or cassettes.

Surfaces for the ribs.

Five of them transitioning from l one superior to l five, which is going to articulate with the next most inferior structure, which is the sacred.

These lumbar vertebrae are massive their big.

You can see a curve there a bit l one two, three, four five articulating inferior lee with the sake rem and anterior view, great big body and a post eerie irv you chunk.

So here's a former to thirty student who was studying abroad in ghana and she came across a pile of bones and she sent me pictures.

This is an elephant rib.

This was in her set of photos that she sent me and so i'm going to ask you now that you're knowledgeable about elephants spines what part of thie spine does thiss elephant vertebra belong two using the rules of human anatomy where would you place ?

This vertebra in an elephants spine.

Oh, how about if i make it so you can see it up close.

This is a really irritating thing that's happened there.

Now you got it.

Doesn't look like any of the human verte break what if you impose your idea of a typical vertebra on here my people find something that is helpful.

Let's see how we're doing oh, you are here and thinking.

Let's go and you have found something's here.

The cervical sze have it and let's talk about it.

What do you know about cervical ?

Vertebrae and the human ?

What do they all have holes in their transfers processes and we call those holes transfers for raymond there it is so let's step back a minute and think about what we're looking at here.

Might we agree ?

This is the body of the vertebra.

This is the vertebral arch around the for tea.

Brawl for raymond, we would call these pentacle sze.

We would call this the lamb mina and here's the spine is process.

This looks like and our articular surfaces.

Perhaps for the adjacent heard abroad.

So this is either superior.

Aaron inferior we don't really know or maybe we would call it in the elephant cottle or cranial so that we know whether it's headed the surface towards the head or the surface towards the tail.

And here's the transfers process with that transfers for rape.

That would be my first guest so moving on.

I know run moving inferior li i should say here's the secret and in the sacred.

The vertebrae are fused, so it's one structure that we call the sacred.

And then we have some very variable number of cute little cocks jill vertebrae in our cocks six or tailbone anybody in here injured their cock six years quite an uncomfortable injury to recover from all right.

So which of thes surfaces is ventral in the sacred, which direction is ventral.

And then what would you guess which surface would you prefer to have as ventral in your own body ?

And feel free to talk.

This is a silent silent group, and i think i know why not only said early, but it is really hold so maybe you're not quite wound up literally and figuratively.

Okay, so let's see what we've got here we have a lot of choices over here, and i would agree with that.

And the reason i agree with that is that what is anterior to the eventual surface of the sacrum guts viscera ?

We want a nice, smooth surface there that's going to be coming into contact with our soft squishy bowels.

Okay, so let's talk about that ventral surface.

We can identify holes in plural they're known as farrah mina.

And because their ventral there the ventral sacred for romina, don't she'll love a name like that because it tells you everything if you didn't, know this name and you were going to invent it.

This is what you come up with you find it on the ventral surface.

It belongs to the sacred and they are holes.

Here are the superior articular process is that we might expect on a vertebra as can articulate with the inferior articular processes of l five.

There's something called the sacred prominent ori.

That means that it's going to protrude, so it's coming out at you from the screen will see that better when we look at a sagittal view of the sacred.

Let's flip this structure about and look at the dorsal surface.

We could also call it the posterior surface of the sacrament.

It's bumpy, and it's bumpy because muscles attach here.

So we've got a lot of surface area.

We're looking now superior lee at the articular cassettes the articular surfaces on the superior articular process.

There's a sequel canal there is an opening that is contiguous with the vertebral.

For raymond, there's a crest of bone, a line of bone down the middle.

That's the median sacral crest and some ridges lateral to that no, which apparently i'm not asking to be responsible for the hole's on this side.

That is the dorsal first surface dorsal sacred for romina and now also isn't it exposed another articulating surface.

This is going to become part of the pelvis, so your bones, which will learn as koksal bones, are going to articulate with the sacrum and the specific name of that bone is thie ilium.

Thus say crowe iliac articulating surface.

All righty here is that promised satch it'll view and you can see the sacred prominent ori how it protrudes into this anterior space.

You can see a curvature and this sacred canal which the last remnants of the spinal cord are going to be found in and the cocks of geo vertebrae inferior early alrighty.

That's the spine we have done it from top to bottom or anatomically speaking from superior to inferior, and now we're going to talk about the rest of the axial skeleton, which is the river so we've got the ribs and the joining bone anterior.

Lee formerly known as the breast bone but forever more known as the sternum.

So let's start anterior early and looking at the sternum, it has a few parts, something called the manubrium superior lee body in the middle and then a little zay floyd process inferior early.

Some of you may be able to see yours.

I foid process in the mirror if you're particularly lean.

If you can get whether it is in line with your surname here, or if it deviates a little bit to one side of the net.

The other mind tends to deviate there's something here called the sternal angle, and you can feel your sternal angle and i'd like you to do that now, so reigned thiss notch this bony not superior, lee.

And then if you move a little bit imperially that sherman knew bree, um, that's your touching and issued travel down your sternum.

It seems to it seems to have an angle from a satchel view.

It's kind of like that, and so this protrusion you can feel with your fingers.

That's your sternal angle.

That's the joint between them.

A new bree, um and the body up your sternum.

What is interesting about that angle is that it's a guide post to where we are in the rib cage.

If you count down, there's rib one rib, too.

So you're sternal angle tells you where you're second ribis now why that is interesting is because it's also a guide post to what lies within so here is a heart and a order.

And here's your sternal angle so that tells you where the most superior aspect of your heart is by the way valentine's day's coming up so you can approach it with an anatomical view.

Look how this sternum is protecting the all important air aorta.

Here's your dia frampton inferior lee so you can see where these organs are with respect two.

Landmarks of the sternum.

Okay, so interesting only if this is where the second rhib articulates anterior early, you might expect t to to be most directly post cheerier.

But it's not t four so that gives you an idea that the ribs are going to be angling downward anterior lee so that's going to suggest that the ribs have a slightly complicated shape and three d so when we put the ribs together with the sternum, we are going to define a structure called the sub costal angle sub under costal ribs.

So this is the angle that's formed bye bye the rib cage.

If you have a more obtuse angle you, maybe someone has referred to you as being barrel chested.

Or maybe you have a more acute angle and the rib cage is a little tighter, so we've got twelve ribs and how they articulate with the sternum or not categorizes them.

Theseventy superior ribs are called true ribs no judgment involved in that, but anyway, they articulate directly through some cartilage with the sternum any rib.

That's not a true ribas false rib.

So there eight nine ten eleven twelve, they're five of those seven and five twelve.

How do these ribs articulate ?

They articulate with the cartilage rib seven.

Here's ribs, seven and so these are the cartilage is of thes ribs articulate with the cartilage of the seventh rib.

That's false ribs, except for ribs false ribs, eleven and twelve that don't artie accolate anterior lee at all so they're called floating ribs.

So the flooding ribs are a subset of the false ribs.

What kind of cartilage do you think that blue might highland.

Yes, and the reason for that is because the whole skeletal system starts out his cartilage, so this never becomes bone.

And also it's a good structural cartilage here to have so that's highland cartilage, so there's highland cartilage between thie anterior end of the rib and the articulation with the sternum you're happy about that.

If you are on a roller coaster, has anybody broken a rib on a roller coaster or they back in my day when you weren't strapped in to roller coasters, your trunk moved a lot, and i had a friend who broke a rib on a roller coaster ride just from jerking around and that compression so that the highland cartilage.

In other words, it's going to allow for some energy absorption by that cartilage rather than getting transmitted to the bone, so it gives our rib cage a little bit of resilience in the world of loads.

So here the twelve ribs i mentioned to you previously that we might expect us somewhat complicated relationship with the sternum and here we can see how t one his reaching in theory early as it approaches its anterior articulation with the sternum and they're different sizes and hallelujah you will never be asked with a particular rib on a table which rib is this ?

Okay, we'll save that for more advanced anatomy.

You could see the floating ribs here inferior lee all righty so which his post ear ear that would be the end.

That's not anterior, knowing what you know now and what the post cheerier and anterior ends of a rib articulate with which ?

Because the post cheerier in well, you're quick this morning already here we go and those pre class quizzes make a difference.

Many of you have chosen the end of the rib with all the fancy stuff as the post here and and you are so correct.

This is the simple and that's going to articulate.

With the highland cartilage anterior.

What's all this fancy stuff ?

What's the job of the post ?

Your aspect of the rabbit has to articulate in two places with a jurassic vertebra at the very least.

So let's learn about yeah, the landmarks on a typical rib we've got ahead.

A neck and angle and a chef to the head is this posterior, most posterior aspect of the rib that's going to articulate with those demi fif sets on the body of a vertebra.

The neck is here angle and shaft.

On the shaft, there's a groove.

This is on the medial surface of the rib medial and inferior.

There's a groove there because that's where the costal artery and vain travel, so it's their protected from the outside world by the rib.

They just tucked right into that group, but because there is that groove thie inferior margin margin is a fancy anatomical term for ej, the inferior edges sharp.

So if you pick up a human rib, one surface is smooth.

The other surface is sharp, so you know howto oriented superior and inferior, uh, typical here's a bump.

Teuber sounds like a bump and in fact, it is and some articular facets here to articulate with the trans first process off with jurassic vertebra okay, those were the parks and here they are labeled for for you and you can see the articulation post airier li of the head of the rib with the body of jurassic vertebrate the costal articulation on the rib articulates with the costal articulation surface on the transfer process.

Shown here hidden here angle and here's the sharper inferior at costal cartilage cartlidge of the rib.

We know it's made out of highland already i love love, love, love, love this view thie transfers view of the articulation of ribs with a thoracic vertebra but i love love love about this view is that you can appreciate it the two places where articulates with a jurassic vertebra at the body and at this transfer's process.

So there's some buttressing going on here.

The ribs relationship here is strengthened by this bony relationship with a vertebra angle shaft all right.

I have a question for you.

What do you see here ?

A manu bree, um the sternal angle the body of the vertebra of sternum.

Here are some thor asic vertebrae here some some cervical vertebrae something drastic vertebrae something is different, then your standard anatomy in this picture.

Can you figure out what it is ?

Some of you might look like this in x ray.

I actually don't know what the population distribution of this anomaly is.

Maybe somebody could look that up.

As a literature review.

Are we doing ?

Let's take just a few more seconds here if nothing look strange to you because you are just being introduced to this anatomy fair.

But you how are now or armed with enough information to sort this one out.

Okay, so here we go.

There is an extra rib.

Yes, let's find it.

So what we learned earlier was that the first rib articulates with the manu.

Bree, um the second rhib articulates at the level of the sternal angle.

So here's rib.

One hears rib, too.

What's this ?

Here's what should be ribbed one, but it does not articulate with the manubrium.

It's an extra rib, the so called cervical rib.

So let's count the vertebrae.

If this is truly our first rib, this must be t one.

See seven c sixty five c for c three c two is it's what we would expect of seat, too withy.

Oh, don toid process and see one the atlas all right.

So it isn't an extra vertebra.

It's a rib that is articulating with c seven.

Some of you might actually have a cervical ribs.

Whoa! I've learned what to do here when life goes dark, we reload lp i hit the wrong slide.

Okay, so here's why you discover you have an extra rib because a nerve might get pinched or a blood supply might get occluded because of the presence of that rib and you go to the doctor for those symptoms.

And in trying to sort out why you have those symptoms, it might be discovered that you have a cervical rib.

We'll talk more about this later.

Okay cervical, ribs.

There's an idea for a literature review we're done with the basics.

Let's apply some of this knowledge now, um, to some interesting aspects of the axial skeleton, we're going to look a development of the skull sex differences in the skull.

Curvature sze of the spine.

What are the joints between all of these bones ?

Were going to look at motion differences where you are in the spine ligaments of the spine and some injuries and conditions.

And then we're going to talk about where those respiratory movements come from with respect.

Two.

Those that rib cage that looks like it would not be moveable.

So what happens when you breathe ?

Okay, so let's talk about the skull.

We're returning to our skull.

We're going to talk about development and sexual wall die more fizz, um, so a structure of thie skull how it shaped might differ depending on which sex you are.

And let's look that so here is a bit, uh, an infant skull, frontal view sagittal view and transfers view thes two skulls on the left is shown views that highlight the soft spot in the skull or here's a fancy word that i might ask you to remember i will ask you to remember font to now.

That's the anatomical name for a soft spot, and that's where this fibrous tissue that is going to become the suitors have has a closed yet, so rather than having bone leading up to bone with a suitor in between in the developing skull that fibers tissue between the developing separate bones of the skull still allows you to feel a soft spot.

The most famous one is the superior, um is you find on the superior aspect of the skull ?

It's called called the anterior one in.

I think what we call the superior, but its anterior with respect to this post cheerier one and that fought in el doesn't fuse until about two years, so a doting parent or a conscientious care giver to an infant is going to be trying to protect that portion of the skull because it might be vulnerable tio entry.

So the font nails are the the place is in the skull where the skull bones haven't finished developing wouldn't this be great for allowing skull bones to keep growing is that brain keeps getting bigger and they don't fuse until later all right.

So that's that.

Here is partly why children are cute because they have very small faces with respect to the size of their cranial vault.

So here's a newborn.

I think i said it backwards.

They have big faces compared to their cranial vault as you get bigger.

The cranial wall gets bigger and bigger and bigger, so the relative size here i can contribute to some of that cute nous the newborn and what did newborns not have they don't have teeth, so look what's happening to development of the lower part of the skull.

The facial skeleton it's really developing until.

Finally, we get the really really biggest adult brain, and this fully developed facial skeleton as well.

Lateral view newborn three year old and then the six year old the first grader here.

It is also the first grader so you can see how this cranial vault is getting bigger, especially in these pre school years mandible is just is going to change its shape quite a bit when the teeth start emerging.

Let's talk about sex and the skull if you were to find and i hope you never do a human skull in the woods in a cave.

This is the bone.

This is the set of bones she would go to to determine whether that person was a man of male or a female, even better than the pelvis interestingly, you can sex a set of bones if you're an anthropologist.

For example, bio anthropologists tour a forensic anatomy ist you would be looking at the skull to determine the sex now that's interesting, so what is different about the typical the skull of a typical male the skull of a typical female.

The male cranium is robust bigger super orbital ridges.

Now that's not a landmark that we talked about where might that be super a superior to the orbits you know where those are, so this bony area under your eyebrows are the super orbital ridges bigger, more prominent labella, larger mastoi process and a longer mandibular.

Ramos.

Okay, so let's go looking for that armed with that knowledge.

Which of these do you think is the male ?

One of these is female skull another male, which is which here ?

Can you use any of that information ?

Alrighty.

Let's check it here.

Big votes over here.

So i agree with you totally, let's take that off and look at what you might have used for evidence longer mandibular ramos.

Here's the mandible here's the ramos much longer here, then hear mastoi process.

This one's bigger.

What bone is the master and process on here's him here's a hint temporal bone, okay and glow.

Bella a little bit more pronounced cabela's on which bones frontal.

Thank you a little bit more robust here than here.

And then we can't really see the super orbital ridges so good work.

Of course, we don't come as binary zero and one male and female we come somewhere in that gray area.

Each of us is on a continuum towards the a typical male typical female.

So i like this figure because it shows you.

A scale from one end to another.

Let's look the mast oid process smaller here bigger here so gla bella flatter here more pronounced here.

So it looks like this five end of the scale is likely the more typical male, but of course we're all.

Somewhere.

We might not be on one of the scale or the other.

Here's the super bowl orbital ridge more delicate, more robust mental eminence.

More prominent on the mail and all right nukul crest any remembrance of what the new coal region wass.

So the new coal crest would be here.

Okay, what about race ?

Well, physical anthropologist, don't really use i don't really invoke race and looking at the skeleton much because, uh, there is there's so much difference.

Here in terms of or variability based on geographic ancestry so it's really not as evident in the skeleton, as say something like sex or what your height was or what your age waas.

So it's not very reliable actually.

And, in fact, some of the part of the skeleton that might be most useful are the teeth, and that's not something that's in scope this class.

Color of the day is brand own.

Click, click click and we will move on.

So it's fun to watch those numbers growing.

All righty good job and moving on special features of the spine.

So we've learned some interesting facts about the skull hinted how the skull grows, those fontaine, els ours due to the fibrous connective tissue that is joining those bones.

We've thought about sex and we've thought about race and really sex was the big news about differences in the skull.

Let's talk about the spine now and put together those individual vertebrae into a a vertebral column.

So when we do that curvature sze emerge in our spine, it's not it's not just a straight line of vertebrae, but we've got some curving in our spine that's normal, typical and healthy.

So i have label these for you with these words in the cervical spine, it's con cave post eerie aly similar as the lumbar spine.

So the convex side is anterior in these regions and the con cave site is post here you can remember the words you could just feel your lumbar spine and know that it's curvature is somewhere to the curvature and your cervical.

Spine the rast, sick and sake role our khan cave in the other direction, so they curve in the other direction.

So now con cape is anterior in these two regions of this how these curves developed follow our movement function.

So as a fetus, all parts of our spine are con cave and tear yearly right the fetal club cave anterior early as we begin to sit up and hold that massive heavy head upright, some curvature begins to emerge in the cervical.

Spine it reverses because lifting the head when we stand are curved begins reverse in the lumbar region, and we retain that primary curve in our thor asic and sacral region.

But the curve reverses that primary curve reverses in cervical and lumbar region.

Sometimes these curves curvature sze can become excessive, and in those cases, it can become a problem.

So our spine can have excessive curvature in the satchel plane in the lord, doses direction or the kaif closest direction or our spine can take on a curve in the frontal plane and that's called scoliosis.

Typically we think of lord doses as an exaggerated secondary curve in the lumbar region ?

Fact it can also happen in the cervical and some of your reading.

You might come across cervical lord doses, but we typically think of this as the lumbar region.

This is not a curve that you can a question.

Yes.

Oh, you mean in the population hi actually.

I don't know.

Another good literature review question.

It's because muscle strength is sometimes involved in that it might have to do with handedness of the individual.

For example, i actually don't know the answer to that question.

Hard questions like that are always welcome and i am yeah.

Could it be what ?

Uh uh oh, that's a really interesting question and again i don't know i'm going to talk about a type of kaif oh, cece that is related to aging, but i actually don't know if there are some spinal anomalies that are congenital or if there is something going i don't know that so.

The's kurds are not the ones that you can make.

I can appear to create lord doses with anterior tilt of my pelvis.

That is not lord doses, thes, air structural.

So this is how the bones are placed with respect to each other.

This is not something you change with movement.

This's structural this is the shape of the bones themselves.

So here is that type of life ?

Oh cece that i i said i was going to describe due to aging so when with aging and loss of trebek euler bone in the bodies of vertebrae their weekend as bone mass goes away in these and vertebral bodies.

The chronic load of gravity is always tugging downward on our spines as we stand upright, and gravity is tending to flex the spine because of where our center of mass is and where the gravitational vector is is trying to flex our thoracic spine as that red arrow is showing.

So when you combine chronic election load on that duress x spine with weakening the vertebral bodies due to osteoporosis.

Instead of being nice rectangles, bean jurassic vertebrae begin to become wedge shape.

So if now you have a bunch of wedges stacked on top of each other, you're going to get an exaggerated curve.

If you are in the grocery store look, you might see postmenopausal women with kai thought ick the wrasse iq spines.

He might actually look for that, because it's something that is clearly visible to the naked eye, or if you visit if you're doing any service work in and assisted living facility, you might see this in the men and the women in very elderly individuals.

You might notice that your grand parents are getting shorter as you hug them year after year.

They're getting smaller and you've stopped growing, so it's not you getting bigger.

It's um getting smaller these introverted brel discs lose water.

Remember this five broke cartilage has a lot of water in it, and so they get smaller and so that is why you're grandparent's are getting shorter literally because these discs are losing height so that can also amplify this effect.

So that's the wrasse ic ky forces due to osteoporosis and jurassic vertical.

So the wedging that ideally this picture should be reversed.

Because the wedging is anterior early, they're smaller interior.

Okay, how, uh do they stay still do this in middle school ?

Did you do this ?

So i'm shifting now to scoliosis, and this is the curvature in the frontal place.

And this hand begin to develop in adolescence, which is whites and middle school of this test is done, and it turns out that what looks like a pure frontal plane angle.

There's actually a bit of a twist to the vertebrae that accompanies this.

So if someone has scoliosis this is what the what used to be.

The school nurse of schools still have nurses in them.

They're actually looking for an asymmetry in the shape of the rib cage that would be secondary to this scoliosis developed.

So most scoliosis is idiopathic, meaning we don't know what causes it that eighty percent.

Forty eight percent of the population has scoliosis.

We don't know what percent of that forty eight percent are deviated towards the right or to the left eight times, more likely and females advancing to the point where it needs treatment if you have a little bit of scoliosis is not a problem, but if it's severe, is gonna compromise a cardio pulmonary function that's heart and lungs.

So summer in the orthopaedic surgery units is sometimes called scully season.

Because that's when the scoliosis cases when the surgeries are done in summer when there is in school.

All right so here is how you're ?

Rick radiologist is going to determine the extent of scoliosis with something called cobb's angle.

And if any of you have scoliosis and if any of you have this particular view of your own spine, you can measure your cobb angle here so a line drawn through the bottom portion of the affected spine excuse me did i say, bottom i meant inferior and the superior portion.

And then you measure the angle between the perpendicular to each of those lines and that is defined as the cobs angle can see it here.

Thirty five degrees, much more than thirty five degrees.

In fact, the radiologist has written on here or someone is written on here.

Eighty degrees of deviate.

This is very severe.

Here is how you can imagine that your heart and lungs might be affected.

So what can you do about it ?

Exercise is always the first response to scoliosis.

If that doesn't work, a brace might be warned applying force in the direction of these arrows trying to straighten the spine and the surgical intervention might require some appliances placed on the spine that can be adjusted as time goes on so here's a pre at fifty eight degree cobb's angle and a post after the surgery has been done.

Okay, so we've talked about curvature of the spine both the typical ones and exaggerated curves.

Now let's talk about joints between the vertebrae where do you think you might find some synovial joints.

Okay, you have felt i'm not going to leave a water bottle without a lid near electron ix i have dumped a cup of coffee onto my laptop.

Okay, so we've got a choice.

We've got a joint and tear e er between bodies of vertebrae that space is filled with this material.

What is this material ?

I broke ?

Hardly so what do we call a joint that is filled with fei broke cartilage which one of those asked for it simple assist.

Okay, so this is not a synovial joint here it is good for so b beset joint the joints between the articular process is post airier the vertebral arch joints arson no veal so vertebrae have two kinds of joints between them.

Libro cartilage anterior early and synovial joins post your yearly already, and there we go.

There's a picture so we'll be talking about these joints and this one card largeness in fact, fibra cartilage.

In fact, simplicity all right.

So let's talk first about that simp acis the inter vertebral discs here is what they look like in a trans verse section fei broke arledge we're going.

Expect to see a lot of collagen, and in fact, that collagen is arranged in ring use around something in the middle.

And that's called anya list fibrosis rings.

I have fibrous tissue in the middle of something called the nucleus proposes.

It's a gel, very full of fluid and a lot of water, and we know that that doesn't like to be compressed.

So when one vertebra vertebral body presses against another vertebral body, that's what's in between that nucleus paul poses is pushing back, and all of those fibers running laterally our containing their fencing in that gel like nucleus paul poses so here is what's really cool about that.

Those fibers are arranged layer by layer in different direction, so when you push down compress that nuclear pull poses like a water balloon.

It wants to expand sideways, and it would except expanding side obeys stretches those college and fibers that air fencing it in so they pushed back because they don't want to get stretched so that water balloon keeps pushing back on the vertebrae, so the those two materials work beautifully together to provide the function we want from these in a vertebral discs, which is to allow mobility while absorbing shock and resisting compression.

The the's for to break it thicker as you move inferior lee in the spine and that makes sense since the load is going to decrease as you move from superior to inferior.

Okay, i know where i'm headed ?

Let's talk about thes beset joints.

I just use the term for set joints.

That's what we call.

The joints between these articular process is the joints between these faces these articular faces or cassettes synovial.

What do we know about a synovial joint there space ?

There synovial fluid the articular besets are covered with highland cartilage, so they're smooth and slow no friction past each other.

Fairly flat surfaces, so they really don't rotate each individual for set joint, we would characterize as a synovial joint in terms of its structure.

In terms of its function, we're going to put it in the non axial or gliding joint those faces air just slipping past each other flighting what motion is allowed at these facet joints depends on how the cassettes are oriented with respect to each other.

How they're positioned on those articular process is all they could do a slide.

So how they're oriented will determine what type of motion is allowed at that part of the spine so sadly and i'll put in a room.

I'll put in an additional slide so that you could read this word.

And it's not obscured here b formal anatomical name for these beset joints is ziga papa seal joints so i will put up in an extra side so you could read that that might come across in your readings.

So don't worry about it here i'll just add a slide so i won't replace this because that would take your notes out i'll just add another slide in.

Okay, so let's talk about how these facet joints are oriented in different regions of the spine in the cervical spine from the satchel view their oriented like this obliquely at an angle for you about forty five degrees so they slide like this that lets you flex and extend, and they khun slide this way that's going to allow other motions.

We want our cervical spine to be mobile, so this oblique orientation helps us to achieve that.

Big exception superior.

Lee we have motion between the atlas see one and the occipital bone so that those we have more cup like we had con dials on the base of the occipital bone.

So that's a rounded surface, not so so flat and the corresponding shape of the articular facet on the atlas or see one and that joint this design.

The structure of that joint allows this movement you get a lot of sad, little plane flexion and extension motion.

That particular joint because of the shape up those articular surfaces.

C one c too.

That list see one axis c two.

There's theo, don toid process anterior lee, and that joint is gonna allow rotation motion.

So this is going to we talked about this before that allows for an amplification rotation motion at that pivot joint between c one and c two.

So the articular surfaces between this particular set of bones is not typical for the cervical vertebrae, and so the motions are also not to in the jurassic region.

The orientation is more like this where my palm might be the articular might be looking at in the jurassic region to superior articular process is with e articular surface on so they're almost vertical and they face anterior posterior.

So, uh, this is where i do my flight attendant thing, and i really recommend this.

This is how i remember it.

Cervical jurassic lumbar.

Back of the plane wings first class i don't know what this would be, but that's actually how i remember the orientation of these articular surface.

In lumbar region there there even more vertical, but now they face each other anterior post here oh, i guess it could be that back of the plane wings array you remembered okay right so lumbar spine they face medial lateral to each other.

So now let's look and here's the orientation medial lateral.

So that sounds like a lot of unpleasant detail to remember, but it's highly significant functionally when we assemble the spine you've learned movements of the spine is if it's one thing it flexes extends latterly flexes to the left or the right, and it rotates to the left or the right.

But in describing the motion of the spine we talked about motion between individual pairs of vertebrae motion segments c one seat to see to see three c three c for.

We can describe motion between individual pairs of bones and we call that emotion segment and so what we're about to learn is that what movements are allowed at a particular motion segment depends on the orientation of those articular.

Percents.

The thickness of the spine can amplify how much motion in that direction is allowed.

So what do all those words mean ?

Here's what those words mean.

And here's the scary part i would like you to be able to sketch this graph in the end.

By region not by motion sick.

Okay, so what we got here we've got each motion segment of the spine the occipital bone c one c one c to see to see three moving downward and then the black bar tells you how much motion is allowed.

Is it ten degrees of motion ?

Is it no motion ?

Is it twelve degrees of motion ?

So given what was just discuss ?

What plan emotion do you think this might be ?

Is this the sagittal plane describing him out of flex.

It's allowed.

Is this the frontal plane talking about how much lateral flexion is allowed ?

Or is this the transfers plane showing the amount of rotation that's allowed ?

So my hint to you would be to look at c one and c two.

What does c one and c two allow a lot ?

Must not be that plane because there's not any emotion in that plane that c one c too.

What motion is allowed at the occipital moments at sea and see one what can you do ?

A lot of doesn't seem to be a lot of that in this slight.

Probably not that.

Okay i'm getting looks of absolute disgust.

That's way too hard so let's see what you've got.

Yep, we know it's not rotation based on the fact that there's no rotation here so but which of those other two ?

Is it if this wass flexion extension ?

What would we expect occipital bone c one motion segment ?

A lot emotion in the flexion extension direction.

This looks like the same as every place else, so it must not be the satchel plane.

We must be looking at frontal plane motions, so i'm going to give it to the lateral plate.

And here we go.

Let's talk about rotation.

What do we see ?

A whole bunch of rotation allowed it c one c too so much.

In fact, that the bar has a line through it mean that it's off scale.

There's so much rotation allowed.

What do we also notice no rotation between the skull and see one so those con dials allow the rocking motion, but no rotation we don't want to bring our own necks right ?

So first motion segment doesn't allow any rotation.

The second motion segment allowed huge amounts of rotation so that's distinctive.

In this direction looks like we've got similar amounts of rotation in the cervical and harass explain.

But oops, it drops off.

Here you can't rotate much in your lumbar spine this orientation doesn't allow the bones to rotate with respect to each other so rotations really limited in the lumbar spine.

Let's look at our lateral flexion.

I look at this graph and it looks like oh lateral flexion is about the same everywhere, except he wants to what happens.

If you laterally fleck happens to you're a don toid process it breaks if you try toe laterally flex it, it's going break that tip of bone off.

So in fact, that's what method of death by hanging because it breaks off and then can damage the spine.

So lateral flexion is not something that we want emotion saying that c one c too life threatening.

Now let's go to the satchel plane.

We predicted a lot of motion at the occipital bone and see too first motion saying that we get a lot of rotation there.

Flexion you conflicts a lot at that.

Motion segment looks like complex a lot in a great deal of the cervical spine.

Sorry.

And it looks like conflicts ah lot in the lumbar region where can you not flex where you where there are rips ?

The jurassic spine can do this and can do this.

But hand rotate.

Because of the sentir post your orientation for sale.

Okay.

So when i say i want you to be able to draw these i mean, draw a box.

Oh, i've got rotate i've got flexion extension in the lumber fine i've got flexion extension in the cervical spine not much here and an exception.

Cervical lumbar.

Not much in between loud reflection about the same everywhere.

One exception.

Cervical region.

Rotation jurassic region rotation lumber region limited rotation two exceptions superior.

Learn what the region's khun do typically and then learn our three exceptions.

Here's one here's to here's three typical yes, yes, no, yes, yes, yes, no.

That's what i mean when i say you should be able to draw those yes.

Why the line is there.

Yes that linus there.

That's a convention when you're when you're drawing a graph that says, so the scale there is, you would expect that to be thirty degrees.

Maybe if you extended the scale, but you've got a lot more than thirty.

Well, i'll go to one side you've got a lot more than thirty degrees.

So if they drew this scale out too eighty degrees, it would compress everything else so much that you couldn't see it.

So that line just says it's off scale.

There's so much talk.

It's off the scale.

Thank you for that question already so to stop there, but i'm going to ask you to do something this weekend.

There is something called draught to know it in the module, and it asked you to draw vertebra from tread transfers, view and two vertebra from the satchel.

And i really would like you to try to do that.

That's we're going to be your best way tto.

Learn these vertebrae and enjoy the bones this week in lab thank you.

E.