Good morning everyone welcome to wednesday.

I know i have a cold, but this is kind of scary that nobody wants to get near me.

Okay, but i guess if a cold is the worst.

This season has delivered to mei.

I'm doing well.

I am going to start with some logistics for the course.

First of all where is your participation for last monday ?

I don't know active learning platform doesn't know the data seems to have escaped.

So i'm gonna give everybody credit for monday.

I have no idea what's gonna happen with today's data.

There engineers are working on it never had this much problem with active learning platform.

I'm sure just to make you very confident, but we'll get there, uh, that's number.

One number two i'm going to talk about grade craft today i let's go.

Let's go there because there's an assignment due a week from today, and you might be wanting to know where is that assignment ?

So let's go to great craft.

You know what i'm going to switch to student few so my mine will look like yours.

Maybe or maybe not, let's see yep.

And when this happens, it turns into somebody else's course, uh okay.

I can't be a student i will just be may ma'am we'll try again okay.

So here it is.

I am someone has alerted me to this these messages air wrong because they say it could take the quiz as many times as possible.

I will fix that pronto you do get one one chance for those quizzes, so i will fix that now where they hack or the assignments these magical green lines up.

Here are the key to grant great craft if you quick on that click on that look at what happens here.

Everything appears assignments and the grade predictor preview.

So let's goto assignments and well, uh, everything's here it's amazing.

Let's go to the anatomy lodged table here is the assignment you click on this and two people have done it already.

No.

I've never had it not respond to me before when i've gone to open it so i'll do it this way this little drop down over here nothing is happening when i click.

Okay.

Can can any of you click on the assignment get teo ?

No, it's not happening.

Okay, so let's try again maybe it doesn't know who i am okay, here's great craft again okay.

Great craft is fussing.

It's okay, so let's go to syllabus instead.

Okay, i have revised the syllabus if you noticed if you looked at the first one, there were no points in there for what was the name.

Now there are points for what is an a so i am so when you click on syllabus you come to this page and you can see the quiz due dates here, but not the assignment due dates because the assignments are posted in grade craft.

They're not posted in the assignment section of canvas like you might be used to looking for them, they're.

You have to go to great craft to get the assignments, but i'm going to click on this syllabus document and let's get it to open.

Okay.

So here's the syllabus.

It looks the same on the first page.

Here is where it looks different on the second page, so i would encourage you to reed reed download your syllabus.

So there are lots of ways to get to.

Owen a turns out in a is twenty to fifty points two thousand two hundred fifty points, so here three examples of how you could earn that so with maybe some different scenarios.

Let's start with a procrastinator and if you might be in that category, so here are the required assignments here.

And let's say you think you're going to get an eighty five percent average on the exams because maybe that's what you do typically so they're the point.

So if you predict that asterix says it's required pre impose quizzes you're going to miss, you do get about eighty five percent of the points, but you're going to get ninety percent of the points on the required anatomy large table assignment due next week and this anatomy language analysis assignment so that's the required stuff now you get to choose so you think you're going to attend.

Twenty out of twenty three class sessions.

I'm an optimist and you think you're going to complete one anatomy field experience and get ninety five percent of the points you're not going to bother with any of those literature reviews you're not going to bother with the thie optional anatomy language analysis assignment and oh, it looks like i have anatomy literature reviews in two places mom so you're going to put all of your points into the bucket.

The case study and the grand rounds follow up on that and this muscle tendon case study is doing the last third of the class.

So that's an example of really not paying attention to this course until the end of the course.

Maybe you want to just let's go up to solid and steady.

You're going to do all of these required assignments again you're going.

Ten most of the classes and you're going to jump in and do the field experience early on you're going to do a case study you're going to choose to do the anatomy lodge case study that's do about in the middle of the course and you'll follow up with the grand rounds there.

Maybe you want to get this course all the points up front because you know that you've got a whole bunch of exams in april, and you really want to focus on those other courses in april so you want to grab your points as soon as you can so you do, but you think you're only you're going to miss about five of these classes.

You're not going to bother with the field experience.

Instead, you're going to do all you're gonna do three out of five options ?

Well, you can only get points for three of them of thes literature reviews because you can do that on your own time.

You don't have to go anywhere.

You're going to do the first case study option and you're going not bother with the ground.

Grand rounds you're just going to do literature reviews so you see how you can choose what assignments you want to do in these optional buckets.

Okay, so now let's go back and i'm sorry the important point we didn't get teo, which is the points so they're here so this is what you're aiming for for whatever grade you wanna get in this course.

Okay, so let's go see now if great craft will this looks more promising.

So i'm going to go to these three green lines again, and i'm going to go teo assignments and check out that in that image table assignment.

I have no idea why it's dead.

Can they want to get in two great craft right now ?

Can you ?

What yeah, you don't see those so out, so those of you have gotten to the anatomy assignment.

How did you find it ?

Can someone stand up and tell us how you got it ?

You found it didn't you.

How did you get there ?

Ok, upcoming events.

That's how you could navigate.

Um and has anyone tried the grade predictor yet, some people have cause i see the evidence of it.

So this is what it looks like you can go in and slide over.

You can see the points building you think you're going to get eighty five percent on the exam so you could just fill in the exams and you can see your points building.

You know you're going to do all of these, so you can slide all of these over.

And you can see how the points are growing.

So this is how you can predict where you are in the course and how many points i'm going to add in how many points it takes to get teo to the letter grades, so you can see exactly where those are a little bit later today.

This has been a bit of a bust of a demo since i didn't know you didn't have the three green bars oops, so let's wait for this to reload, and we will do as what was suggested come may be.

I will give it three more seconds, and then i'm going bail.

One two three i'm bailing.

I will do a great craft demo later when i figure out why it's not loading and what's going on but anyway.

That's where you should go.

I've been told that the links to the instructions of the anatomy large table aren't there because it's a pdf assignment, so i will make live links in the assignment instruction box.

Okay, please email me if you have any issues i clearly i'm having issues up here, but we can work together to resolve them.

I know some people have been yes.

They are posted.

Thank you for pointing that out where do you find the stuff ?

If you click on, let's click on today.

So there's a whole module.

When you click on today's lecture, they hear our links to the quiz is here links to the practice.

Quiz is oh, i didn't upload today's it should be there.

You know what i'm going to make live last semester's and then i'll.

So you can get that now.

Normally i published them in the module.

Thank you for pointing that out and then thie after class practice items are here is well.

Thank you for asking that question that's important.

I've been very distracted by trying to get great craft toe works.

Therefore, i didn't post today's power points.

Sorry about any other questions.

Are you more confused now than when i started talking, it's a possibility.

Okay.

I'll go in again next wednesday, but just talk to me if you have issues, proust all right.

Another thing that you might notice is that i didn't finish the slides from last lecture i'm going to go over a few of them today and then we'll move on so everything.

I don't finish from the last lecture i'll move into the current lecture you don't need to switch between days inactive learning plateau.

Okay, so what is there still left to say about skeletal, tissues and joints ?

And a clue what type of joint this is.

Do you have any recollection of what that might ?

We're going to talk about the spine today, so this is going to be more relevant shortly.

What type of material is this ?

That is feeling the space between these two bones and attaching them to each other.

Anybody want more time.

Nobody's nobody's telling me they want more time.

So here we go and a lot the cartilaginous joins people have it.

It's the type of cartilaginous joint that is made out of fi bro cartilage, which is different from dense regular fibrous connective tissue.

What do you call ?

A fight broke cartilage joint which of these s words belongs to fi bro cartilage joints.

And sadly.

The answer is none of them.

And thus the confusion sin con dross iss is highland cartilage the s word that is not here that should be here is sin are throw assis a sin are throw sis is a non synovial joint i'm just like batting one hundred percent on confusion up here this morning sin con tro says is ah highland cartilage joint sin desk moses is a fibrous joint a synovial joint has a joint space.

The joint that you saw does not sort campus synovial and the searchers in the bones of the skull.

So it's none of these.

The correct answer is sin are throw sis or simp assis.

So now you have six s words to deal with simp assis.

In particular is a five broke hard village cartilaginous joint.

That's what this is us.

This is a simple assis.

It belongs to the broader category of non synovial.

Joints called a sin are throw sis, and that will be shown for you here.

So the joint that you were just looking at made out of fibrosis cartilage is this one a simp assis.

It's a cartilaginous joint where this space is filled with fei broke cartilage and it belongs to the larger category of a sin are throw sis so you see the job you have to do here is sort out all of these s words.

Gotta move now and talk about synovial joints thes we think of as being movable joints.

Some sin are throw seas are also a bit mobile, but the key feature of synovial joints is that the space is not filled with material.

It's got a joint cavity.

And that joint cavity has synovial fluid in it, so we further categorise synovial joints by the types of movement that occur at them.

And if you look up here, you see the word axe eel in all of these.

In other words, a joint axis rotation around an axis.

There might be one axis uni articular two axes by our two by axial or three axes try axle tri axial.

There's also a non axial.

That's because it doesn't rotate around an axis.

It has linear emotion, the bones glide past each other, so we don't think of that as rotating around an axis.

So an example of that might be these little bones in the wrist where the flat surfaces slide past each other.

We talk about the combined motion of all of those non axial joint motions as wrist flexion our extension or radio ulnar deviation, but the dean those individual bones they're just sliding past each other.

They're not rotating in the same sense that your shoulder rotates in three different axes you know, jack seal we think of the elbow it does one thing it rotates around one axis your wrist, uh, we'll talk about this joint between your hand bone and your fingers bones.

We talked about fingers being able to aban abduct and flex and extend so that motion is happening here in your knuckle.

And you can move in two different planes satch it'll or frontal because of this by axial joint, and then i just talked about the tri axial.

This joint your forearm joint.

Let's put it together this movement pro nation and super nation between the bones of your forearm.

How would you describe that both functionally and structurally ?

Function being the movement structure being the anatomical classifications of the type of joint.

Let's see how i'm doing since okay, i hear discussion that's always good.

All right here we go.

This joint is uni, axial and synovial, so it rotates around one access.

The axis going through the forearm rotating spinning around that axis, and those bones are joined by a synovial joint that allows that motion.

Cnr throw sis means non synovial joint sin kandra assis means hyatt cartilaginous joint of thie highland cartilage type sin desk most this means fibrous joint and synovial.

There's a joint cavity.

So here's what can happen unfortunately to us as time marches on this kyle and cartilage that oops the ends of the bones in a synovial joint can wear out.

When that smooth, slick kyle and cartilage wears out.

Then the bone gets exposed.

This is a very, very painful joints.

This is a joint that has osteo arthritis inflammation of the joint that's supposed to rheumatoid arthritis, which is this systemic disease ?

This is aware and tear arthritis osteoarthritis, and the joint can respond by laying down new bone called bones spurs.

And this is a very, very painful joint.

It's so painful impact.

In fact, the people elect tohave these parts of bone removed from their body and replaced with endo pross thesis, ease to alleviate the pain.

A normal me joint.

There's lots of space here nice thick highland car lige, which since shown here in x ray.

And as that cartilage a little literally, wears down, you can see that the joint space gets smaller because the cartilage has worn away.

So i'm not going to take the time to show these videos here.

They explained they show you quickly what a synovial joint is they talk about the development of osteoarthritis and here you can see what a surgery might look like marked up to replace.

An arthritic knee joint, for example.

Okay, so just watch those on your own there.

Very short, a couple of minutes.

So now we're ready for today.

Now we're goingto look at actual bones that have names and actual structures were going to start with the axial skeleton.

That's the skeleton at thie axis of the body or the trunk.

So again, here's what we're going to cover and go back at the end of this module and see if you can remember what has pointed out here.

So it looks like we're going to talk about the skull and the spine and the joints between them.

So which are the bones that belong to the axial skeleton and they're the ones that you can see the ones that aren't in faded out yellow here.

So we're going to be talking about this skull, the spine, the rib cage and a little bit of the palace.

Those sacred so interestingly that means that the rest of the pelvis and your shoulder girdle belong to the limbs.

They're part of the ap end icky ular skeleton.

We're going to be talking today and next time just about the axial skeleton at the axis of the body.

So let's start with the skull talk superior cranial word and where this is why in the direction of your head is called in the cranial direction, because that's where we find the cranium.

But the skull consists not only the bones of the cranium, but also the bones of the face, so we're going to divide up the bones.

The cranium is the part that holds our precious brain tissue, and then the face is on the anterior part of the cranium.

And that's going to be associated with chewing and with the spaces that will allow for our sensory organs so here for the five bones of the cranial.

We're going to learn when you're in medical school.

You learn names of a lot more of the bones of the skull, but the's air the five that were going to learn about in here because they are they service attachment points for some of the muscles that we're gonna be talking about so do you know from europe creek last quiz what thes bones might be.

Sometimes conveniently the names of the bones give information about where they are.

And consult with somebody next to you if you like see if you got the same ordering.

Let your neighbor teach you learned by taking your neighbor.

We're coming along.

How are we doing here ?

Couple more seconds.

Anybody in here want more time.

Okay, we're still working that's fine.

Okay here we go.

And it looks like we have the majority of answers in the right place.

Let's name them in your notes up front number.

One blue bone frontal your forehead is a frontal bone.

Two is parietal.

You've got a pair of parietal bones right and left three the purple bone occipital.

It's where my son in law.

Now places his man bun.

Uh, five pink temporal here where the ears are and then this little bone is this feen ?

Oy this little one right here.

So what can you feel of these bones ?

Are you ?

Ill ?

Huh ?

This bone right here lateral to your orbit or your eye socket you can feel that rigid bone now if you move posterior your fingers air on your parietal, excuse me your spin.

Oid bone that's where the yellow one is just just post eerie er to that peru bert pro tuberous on the lateral side of your orbit.

Okay, so a frontal bone up front anterior and superior to your nose one landmark to learn there glubb bella the globe ella's between your eyebrows and you can feel that ridge of bone right there that shirt labella.

Parietal, bones form the sides and roof of the cranial vault.

Now, if any of you have taken bio and throw cranial vault is a term, you might be used to because we want to measure the size of the brain, so the size of the cranial vault is an indicator of how big the brain is inside.

You've got a right one in the left one, and there's a seam down the middle.

And you already know what the type of joint is between those two parietal bones.

The occipital bone is post ear ear.

If you put your hand on your occipital bone, you can feel some bumps there and that bump that you're feeling is the external occipital per true prints of a true prince is something that sticks out and certainly khun feel that bump of bone, post ear e er hello.

Maybe you remember from doing somersaults as a kid on the tv room floor.

Maybe got a bruise there.

I have a memory of that occipital con dials con tiles or knuckles rounded.

So here the occipital kanda lt's what am i looking at here i'm looking at an inferior view of the skull here is the occipital bone.

Here's post ear ear.

The teeth are anterior.

Here is the external occipital protrude parents here the con dials nice smooth.

You'll see those in the lad better, but they're nice, smooth surfaces.

That's what's going to articulate with the first vertebra.

There's a great big hole here a mag magnum hole for raymond magnum now why do you have a big hole in the base of your brain of yours ?

There's the answer in the base of your skull.

Brain to spinal cord right spinal cord has to get connected the brain.

It passes through that great big hole for raymond magnum, and then we have some things called inferior new coal lines inferior.

We know that where that would be nicole nicole is a word for the post year aspect of the neck, so that's telling us that on the post airier aspect, they're going to some raised lines of bones superior and inferior in the lab.

You happen to be able to see the inferior lines more clearly.

So i pointed goes out to you here going to be important because muscles attached there.

Okay, so moving on to the camper roll.

Bones this one, and it's got all sorts of fancy stuff on it and this fancy stuff we're going to name, so there's a hole in this bone right here, and you could put your fingers in that hole.

External auditory me et tous for some reason that hole is called mea this instead of a for raymond external because they're seeing it on the external side an auditory because that's where our ears are.

That's the external auditory mediators, and then there are two processes or extensions of bone, a big one and a little one.

The big one massive one is the mast oid process, and you can feel that easily on yourself if you find your air lobes and move posterior.

Lee question i'm sorry.

I'm sorry i don't quite get is the extra auditory me eight is what external.

What acoustic funny i had trouble hearing you ?

Yes, it might be thank you.

So maybe in another book would call it the acoustic one.

Yes, yes, yes, great question.

So when you read anatomy books unfortunately they're not all consistent.

There's an international group that struggles or that defines what the official terms are for things.

So i'm not sure whether that international nomenclature group i would call it has maybe shifted it to acoustic instead of auditory.

I'm not sure what they are in that and you're bringing it up so you've seen it somewhere.

So we're going to use what i put here as ground truth.

Okay, with an understanding that other books or sources might call it.

Other things so thank you for that question that was really important.

Of the language shifts moving on, we're going to see that terms like your achilles tendon that's named after somebody achilles.

So the more current term for that is cal caneel tent in named after the bone.

It attach is too, but in clinical practice in common practices till might be called achilles.

So will be will be dancing around that sort of thing as well all right, but the point is associate with your ear excellent style lloyd.

Are there any djs in here ?

Anybody who uses actual vinyl what's needle on vinyl back in ?

When i was an undergrad ?

We only had vinyl to play music and so you sometimes had to goto radio shack and buy a new stylus for your record player.

It means needle, so the process that looks like a needle is called the style like process.

Okay, steen, oid bone is a very complex bone.

It articulates with twelve other bones wherever we're only talking about a few bones in the skull.

You can thank me for that, um, but this is a very complex, one very, three d, and trying to sort out where you might find it you've already found it now.

It's in few shah, hot pink, and you've already felt that just post cheerier to this landmark.

Okay, so that's your skull.

Can you ?

Click on the club.

Ella really.

Not until i open it up.

You confined it anyway, so so what is open ?

Okay, so click on that club ella easy.

All righty here we go and i am sure that you have nailed it.

Indeed, this is too superior.

Yes, the globe ella's on the frontal bone but be sure you get the exact landmark here four bones in the face.

Here we go.

What do you know about them ?

Already ?

And again remember.

You don't get penalized if you don't get these questions right there here to think right is there anything ?

Can you make sense of this right here right now ?

Either because you've read about it or because the words were suggesting something to you.

This is just to check in where you are right here right now.

And that's what's important because that will tell you yes, i know this or i have to go back in and learn this.

So what do we know about the face ?

Anybody want more time.

Hey, still working! Thank you for letting me know do you agree with your neighbor ?

And here we go.

I labeled them for you know, let's label them.

Number one psycho maddy you're bone here is zygomatic where your nose nasal bones number two.

The team you are rooted into the maxillary number three and your lower teeth are in your mandible number four.

Okay, so let's look at that max l a that holds the roots of the superior teeth and we've got and so it's this purple bone.

And what do we see ?

Here is a frontal view anterior face a trans first view a transfer verse view and inferior surface showing so you're hard palate is your maxillary it forms the nasal aperture and aperture is an opening any of you who have used a film camera know that you have to set the aperture how big the opening is to let the light onto the film and it's forms in part the floor.

The orb you're aissa.

Here's the nasal aperture this opening for the note the nasal bones are small, thin bones inferior to the gla bella anybody broken their nasal bones in here softball in the face soccer ball and easy to break because they're very thin, so they're going to form the most superior part of that nasal aperture.

Zygomatic bones form the anterior portion of the zygomatic arch, so your cheek bones are composed and teary early of the zygomatic bone and post eary early.

Why this bone this cranial bone temporal bone, so there's process of the temporal bone that meets the zygomatic bone.

Here is what you used to call your cheekbone, but now we'll call you're zygomatic arch, and i asked you to feel this lateral portion of your orbit earlier just interior, too.

This fee noid and finally, the mandible holds thie inferior teeth and it very importantly is the bone that moves when you chew.

So when you were learning those terms for elevation and depression of the jar, you were looking at movements of the joint formed between the mandible and the temporal bone or the temporal mandibular joint for the t.

M j.

Some of you might i have had gotten braces when you were younger to adjust the kinnah matics or the motions of your temporomandibular joint ?

Some of you might wear a bite guard at night because so that you don't.

Aggravate your temporomandibular joint.

This could be a place of pain.

So what else do we need to know here ?

While the mandible has kind of l shaped, it has going superior early portion and a going interior early portion.

This going superior portion is called the ramos ramos is a branch, so that's the part of the mandible that reaches up to the temporal bone.

The anterior yeah.

And then this is the rest of the mandible.

So here's the ramos and it forms an angle with the rest of the mandible.

This is thie angle, so you can feel that angle really easily in yourself.

There's a mandibular conda.

What do we know about ?

Con dials ?

We've seen him already today on the inferior aspect of the occipital bone, the articular surface where that occipital bone is going articulate with the verdict vertebral column.

So this man toe mandibular con dial articulates forms a joint with the temporal bone here that's mandibular con dial.

So what's this this protrusion of bone is another process, and it's called the core annoyed process something to memorize.

So the bones of the cranium those five bones we learned intersect with the bones of the face of the orbits or eye sockets are formed by some cranial bones and so facial bones and guessing.

I'm gonna ask you to tell me what is what here so this is an anterior view of a frontal aspect a skull, and there are some bones here for you to sort out.

And you can feel all of these bones you can palpate it's called feel all around your eye socket.

While you're there, give yourself a little massage.

All right how we doing we're doing pretty well.

And when want more time here ?

Okay, we're still working.

Is is hard because you know that the whole context of the rest of the skull okay, so here we go.

Yeah, and i'm going teo tell you what these are the blue bone here number two frontal right that forms the superior part of your orbit the lateral side of your orbit number four.

We identified as the zygomatic bone and then the green bone here number three italy is thumb maxillary.

It has reaches this far superior early so that inner the medial aspect of your orbit you're feeling your maximum so that leaves the yellow bone number four ?

That's the speen oid, and our only clue to that really is that it's the same.

It's belongs to this bone.

It's the same bone and we identified that it's this feen.

Oid just post eerie er to that zygomatic.

Feel feel feel your way through this course all right.

So let's put these bones together and talk about the joints.

We've got two kinds the suitors one of our s words the easy one this is the joint that looks like stitching seeming bad stitching by the way securing these bones together these air fibrous joints so we can see bridal bones here and the searcher and then we have one synovial joint in the skull the temporal mandibular joint yes.

Oh, that's so good that such a great question i wish i was a neurosurgeon so i could answer that i imagine it's.

It's probably particular teo each of us in our development, so these bones, but i don't know the answer.

I'm making a guest there.

That's a really great question, and maybe you could pursue that as one of your literature reviews, um, so these bones don't form in the same way that we talked about last time.

It's an intra member nous, so rather than endo control bone formation, so they're fibrous and then the bones form inside.

That so we're going to see in a moment that the soft spot in children is where these searchers haven't closed completely great questions.

Haven't been able to answer an a bomb today.

That's great all right.

So we name these suitors in particular ways.

Corona lll and satchel that makes sense corona lll.

Be the crown where the crown corona ll searcher, satchel suitor right down the middle dividing into right and left like you might expect.

Sometimes the frontal plane is called a corona ll plane because it is dividing into front and back anyway.

If you're watching the crown on netflix, where's that tiara going right ?

Colonel searcher ?

Now this one post eary early is the joint between the occipital bone and the two parietal bones, and those of you who have you ever used the greek letter lambda might recognize.

This is looking kind of like the greek letter lamb of a fancy kind of so thus the name lam toid suitor because it looks kind of like lambda, the letter lampton.

So yes, you need to know those the temporal mandibular joint to shown here with the jaw depressed and the jaw elevated.

So, uh, let me explain to you what you're looking at here they a bone has been cut away so that you can see this joint.

The bone that has been cut away is the zygomatic bone and part of the temporal bone as well.

So when you see something that looks like trebek, euler bone.

In fact, you're looking at a cut section of a bone here to show us the a cross section through the temporal mandibular joint.

So it's synovial.

There's a joint space, but i thought synovial joyce didn't have anything inside them.

Some synovial joints have a dad a moveable pad in them called a meniscus.

You might be aware of the menace sky plural in your knee joint, but there's a there are minusca.

I i won meniscus in each in your temporal mandibular joints, and it moves around.

It's a it's a pad inside there, so you can see the synovial membrane the joint cavity and then this this pad in the joint.

So it is mobile one november late in the season.

I was cleaning up leaves in my backyard it was cold, side club song so had filled one of those paper bags full of leaves and it was heavy and i was picking it up and my gloves slipped on the bag and i punched myself in my job i sufficiently displaced that little pad in my temporal mandibular joint that i couldn't close my job so i went to the e r and anyway it resolved when the muscles finally relaxed then it slipped back into place on its own but i kept getting letters from the e r enquiring about domestic abuse because know who punches themselves in the job i d'oh okay, so anyway.

Some of you you know like i just described because the jaws mobile you might fall on it.

Lots of things can happen to this joint, so there could be paying their muscle spasms like it's the end of those term.

When you're taking all those tests, you might have some muscle spasms here that might cause compression in that joint and some pain, and your dentist helps you with that.

Here's a nice picture of the auditory matus or acoustic matus.

And finally, we get a beautiful view of the mandible here so you can really appreciate for the first time.

This smooth smooth articulating surface of this mandibular con dial, and you can also see the core annoyed process.

But why do you suppose you have that when you when we crushed food when we chew, we have to have muscles that are going to pull up on the mandible to bring our teeth together with force.

So the core annoyed processes there to attach muscles, too for mastication or chewing.

If you want to see a really big core annoyed process come to my office.

I have a ram's skull in my office, and you can see his really really really big core annoyed process.

Okay, so here is, eh ?

So commented ancestor that was found a couple of years ago in israel.

Homo maliki and then superimposed on that is our skull are contemporary homo sapiens skull, so i would like you to practice a little bit of anatomical language and see if you can describe to me one difference between these two skulls.

You could compose together with somebody next to you.

If you want using anatomical language.

How would you describe the difference in these two skulls ?

Somebody had two when they found it just a couple of years ago.

There's no right or wrong here just start slinging some of those anatomical terms around.

Open.

You could also say what's missing here you want to do that.

What what part of the hummel internal edie skull is missing.

Already.

Shall we go for this ?

Well i've got frontal parietal and occipital bones appear to be much larger and homo sapiens there is no nasal bone good location of for raymond magnum craig no.

No we don't i know where that is cranial vault frontal bone is smaller.

Much shorter superior lee smaller max illa excellent you're now officially anatomy ists oh number of the day four click click click all right.

And here we go way moving on all of that for the skull, let's move on now to the for tea.

Bro column.

We're going to talk about the vertebrae of the spine and the sacrament cox six so notice that this version of vertebra has an e on the end.

So that's how we indicate more than one vertebra averted broads singular vertebrate we don't say verte bras.

We say vertebrae we hang on to the latin.

Okay, so look at what the spine can do.

It has to both be very strong and very mobile.

This is a beautiful design problem, which has been solved elegantly by evolution, so we need to be able.

Teo allow all kinds of motion.

We need to be able to attach muscles to that structure to control the motion.

We need to be able to allow for some shock absorption, and we need to protect our very precious nervous tissue the spinal cord that is going to be housed within these vertebrae.

So how does all of this happen ?

Well, let's get down to business.

Then we talk about the spine is having four parts a neck portion or a cervical spine that typically has seven vertebra a jurassic version.

This is the part where the ribs attack and we've got twelve pairs of ribs so we have twelve jurassic vertebrae the lumbar vertebrae are lower back, five moving inferior lee.

And then we have some fused vertebrae in the sacred five that if used together and so we call that structure the sacrum and then a tailbone or cock six and notice that there is some variability in the number of little teeny cox agiel vertebrae amongst the population.

So if this is a vertebra from the lumbar region, what part of this is anterior.

Think about your own spine.

Is there anything on your own spine that you can feel ?

How might that relate to this picture ?

All righty here we go go the bumpy part is post ear e er what you can feel in your own spine.

This is post ear ear.

And here's the anterior portion good job.

So what do we notice about this vertebra ?

There's a big chunk of bone.

There's a hole there cem extensions of bone and then this post eerie er sticky outie thing.

Okay.

I don't know why my slide forty seven isn't there no, i am not going to take the time to go through this i would like you to watch this on your own ?

You need to be able to draw a vertebra, and it might seem complicated given the shape that you just saw.

But here's a nice youtube video that shows you how to draw one that captures the essential elements, but i'm gonna let you do that on your own.

You can speed through it.

Okay, i know what what what is missing there ?

Can you see this slide ?

Does it show the parts of a vertebra world ?

Okay, so i'm gonna talk through the parts of a vertebra on this one because i don't for some reason have access to that slide so the body is anterior and then post ear ear.

There's an arch bones.

That arch of bone has two parts the uprights.

We call those the pentacle sze and then the bar that joins the medicals.

And that's called the laminar pentacle sze laminar pentacle, sze lamb and there are processes that stick out from that the vertebral arch sideways going.

One process is called the trans verse processes.

They're going trans versus lee out to the side.

There's a post ear e er a process called the spine is process.

That's what you feel.

That's what this is.

And then what's hard to appreciate from this trans, verse view of a vertebra is that they're also processes reaching up and processes reaching down.

So the superior processes and the inferior processes are the places where a jason vertebrae are going to articulate.

So the superior, which you see here these are sticking out of the plane in a superior direction they're going to articulate with the in theory, articular process is the next door neighbor vertebra.

And i hope that's what you can see on this slide.

Okay.

So, uh, put these landmarks in the correct order given the image that you have can you do this ?

Do you have they're labeled on there ?

I'm flying blind here.

The pentacle sze our mohr anterior.

The lamb ina is more post ear e er the spine ist process is on the lam anna.

The trans verse processes are closer to the pentacle.

Okay, so i'll answer this not knowing okay, there's correct no, i think i need to just reload this maid.

Wow! I've gone dark.

Okay.

Where was i oh, there it is oh, life is good.

Okay, so that's what you were looking at and you've answered that question.

We're moving on.

Okay, so when two adjacent or next to each other vertebrae articulate.

There is a space that is formed called the inter vertebral for raymond, and that is opposed to the ver t brel for raman.

Each vertebra has a hole in it.

We call that the vertebral for raymond.

When we stack up the vertebrae another for raymond appears and we call that inter vertebral because it's between two vertebrae.

And here's why we need that space.

The spinal cord passes through the vertebral for raymond, but it needs to send nerves out to the body.

So how do you go from inside the spinal canal from those for table for raymond ?

How do you exit the vertebral canal through those introverted brawl for raymond ?

So those spaces are important so that the's nerve roots can exit the canal and i get nerves to the body.

So that's inter vertebral for raymond are important inter vertebral for ram ina that's plural for for rain.

Okay.

I am like slow as molasses, but we'll get through this so cervical vertebrae seven of them.

We've been looking at a typical vertebra so far, but the cervical vertebrae have some specializations that make them very distinctive.

We count these vertebrae from superior to inferior so cervical vertebra number.

One is most superior and articulates with occipital bone.

See seven is going to articulate with the first jurassic vertebra and here is what it looks like here is c one and c two isn't that interesting those don't look like typical vertebra at all.

There's so distinctive.

In fact, we give them particular names thie, atlas and the axis so can you find the trans verse process of this cervical vertebra it doesn't look quite like that for two brother you looked at earlier.

Already.

Let's get oriented here.

This is this looks like the post eerie er going process.

The spine is process.

This looks like the anterior part the body, even though it looks small, and these things are sticking out to the side.

So i'd put my money on thieves being the transverse processes, which you did a swell.

But what the heck is this hole ?

This these holes thes for ram anna are distinctive to cervical vertebra.

If you see these holes, you know you are looking at a cervical vertebra every single serve icka cervical vertebra has thes holes or for raymond in the trans verse process.

And we call that the transfers for raymond this is the differential diagnosis first cervical vertebra.

If you see these, you know what reaching up the spine urine.

Some cervical vertebra have this forked appearance to their trip to their spine is process.

We call it by fitted for not all of them, though, so that is some evidences.

It is for example, this cervical vertebra does not have a life it, so some of them have it, but not all they all have this transfer's freeman that's important and what why do they have that we need blood to our brain and so the vertebral artery passes through those transfers for raymond in the cervical spine is this an anterior posterior view ?

Well, this looks not like the mandible this looks like the occipital bone.

Anybody know what these landmarks might be.

I'm liking that i'm saying some feeling that's your mastery process, and here are the spine ist processes of the cervical vertebra.

So here's a post ear ear view already.

So see one does not have this life its spine is process.

It does.

All of these have the transfers for raymond c.

Four mid region has won see seven the last cervical vertebra does not have one.

What do you notice about c seven and the length of that spine is process long ?

Can you feel that ?

Yep, that's c seven that spineless process at the base of your neck.

See seven.

S o thes vertebra change as they transition from c one to see seven, you can see that here see one seems to have where's the body ?

It all seems to have migrated laterally and see two has a very particular process on it.

Here's c one and c two atlas atlas holds up the world in greek mythology c one holds up our world of the brain so it's called c one seat, too is called the axis it has an axis it has something called the don toid process or the dens that reaches superior lee and fits inside the axis and that particular articulation lets us say no, no, no, no, no more anatomy today two more minutes.

Okay, so recognize you need to recognize thes two vertebrae thiss dens bro don toid means tooth looks like a tooth.

It's on the anterior aspect of sea to hears this finest process and this is how they articulate.

So the c one c to joint allows for rotation in the trance first plane the no movement because of this particular anatomical structure and you can see how it's articulates here.

It's a synovial joint no the jurassic vertebrae there twelve of them.

And what's distinctive about them is that they articulate with ribs.

Where do you think a rib might articulate with this vertebra ?

What do you know about ribs ?

What do you know about where your spine is ?

Where do you think these ribs might attached to articulate with superior articular process inferior articular process.

This is our first certain satch it'll view of a vertebra look at this long and angle.

Jurassic vertebra here all righty.

Let's answer this and you've got it here.

The two places where a rib articulates with a jurassic vertebra will look for an articular surface on the body and on the transfers processes.

The ribs r buttressed bye and articulation with transfers process.

So i'm going to stop there.

You know enough to get going with the vertebrae in lab this week and i'll continue with this next wednesday.

Be sure and send me any questions you have about finding that another marge table assign