Good morning everybody let's finish up this upper extremities so that we can begin talking about the hip i trust you can hear me if i'm too loud let me know i'm kind of booming out there all right if it's going to be cold, we might as well have snow.

So here we go, uh, wednesday you will arrive in this room and we will have our first exam.

I forgot to put a major event on my calendar this morning, thus yet another email about changing my office hours so you can talk to me right after class.

We can huddle out there.

You can come to my office at one for an hour you can come to my office tomorrow morning.

You can email me so will will talk today and do things together.

I've been alerted to the fact that next sunday super bowl sunday, but we will have class on monday morning.

Okay, next ever and so what is interesting about monday after super bowl sunday is that we will start talking about muscles so let's finish up talking about bones of the upper extremity right now and we left off having catalogued all of the bones.

What we had not yet talked about some of the joints in the distal lower extremity, so the wrist like the shoulder joint on ly make sense anatomically.

When were specific about which joint we're talking about, remember the shoulder we have to call it the glen, oh, huma roll.

So we know which joint shoulder is since it's kind of ambiguous same thing with the risks.

The joint between the distal forearm bones and the most proximal row of carpools is called the radio.

A scaphoid radio carpal joint between the radius and that proximal row of carpools and primarily.

It's going to be between the radius and scaphoid lou nated tricky troll.

And why's that ?

Because the piss a form does not articulate directly with the radius because it's perched on the tricky troll synovial joint, which is kanda lloyd, mean you've seen con dials ?

Maybe you're beginning to understand that khan dials mean a rounded curved surface and so the distal end of the radius is khan cave and that curved scaphoid articulates there.

So it's a synovial joint of the khan tile type.

So it's why articular alright excuse me.

There's a meniscus, so there's a fi broke arledge pad in the space between is this the head of the base of the almond distantly it's the head between the head of the owner and the's medial carpal sze.

It appears there's a space because it's filled with this meniscus or fi broke cartilage pad that sits in that space.

And we don't see an x ray because it's not opaque and x rays.

Forty percent of risk motion happens between the radius and the proximal carpools.

So forty percent of this and forty percent of this is happening there, where's the other ?

Sixty percent happening between the car pulls at the inter carpal joints between the carpools.

The's air also synovial joints.

They're gliding those carpal bones glide rather than rotate with respect to each other, and that sixty percent so wrist means two sets of joints and distributed across all of those joints is where the motions that we call wrist movements come from so we're this far.

What's next ?

We need a joint between the metacarpals and the distal row of carpools metacarpal car po metacarpal joints cmc again.

Synovial joints, although not a lot of you can't move your metacarpals on york arpels very much limited movement and here we're talking the rays the's metacarpals think of squeezing your hand into a glove.

This's what o j simpson and didn't do, which was take advantage of any mobility at that.

Carpal metacarpal joint to kind of make your hands smaller to fit into a club.

You can do it a little bit, particularly on raised for five.

This is important star this know this find in your own hand right now your first carpal metacarpal joint metacarpals number one carpal metacarpal right here right here.

And what can you do there ?

You can do a lot there you khun circum, duck your thumb.

That's because of mobility at your first carpal metacarpal joint.

That's very important.

That's how you're holding a pan right now if you're holding a pen because of mobility at that joint.

So the fingers and thumbs are very different because the fingers cannot move there, but the thumb is highly mobile at the first carpal metacarpal joint two degrees of freedom.

What can you do there ?

You can aban abduct your thumb.

You can flex and extend your thought at that joint very mobile all righty so how with thes some movements ?

Yes, yes, yes, yes, demo.

Star.

This question this is also very relevant for wednesday, events.

And this you can do all of this.

You could do all of these because of mobility.

At that first karp.

Oh, metacarpal joint, find it in your hand.

You don't need to memorize that you could just look at your hand and here we are no.

And yes, you've learned this is abduction.

I'm so proud of you hang onto that.

That's very important that you know which way thumb abduction is already and what we think of his opposition of the thumb is all d'oh to mobility at the first carpal metacarpal joint.

Now let's move distant way we've gotten this far, let's move down to the distal end of the metacarpals between the heads of the metacarpals and the bases of the proximal phalanges ese the metacarpal oh a land deal joints which you confined here at the knuckles of your hand and for your fingers.

The's are also kanda lloyd curved services surfaces synovial joints and we have two degrees of freedom here for our fingers are fingers can happen abducting our fingers can flex and extent.

Can your thumb do two things at the first metacarpal fate land deal joint find it in your hand.

What can you do there ?

You can only do one thing flex and extend.

Put this in your hand.

You do not need to memorize look at your hand.

You do you don't.

It's already there you have to put it there.

You just have to look at it.

So once again the fingers are different than the thumb at the metacarpal fate land, she'll joint in terms of the movements that can happen.

Interval and deal joints so now we're talking these motions also synovial kreutz.

These are, uh, hinged joints they have one degree of freedom.

If lex and extend, you cannot aban add duct at these inter ful angio joints.

If you can you're likely candidate for surgery.

Okay, um anyway we have a difference again between the thumb and the fingers.

The fingers have two inter ful angio joints a proximal interval angio joint between the proximal and middle flanges and, uh, distel inter ful angio joint between the middle and the distal phil angie's thumb has only one interval angio joy because is missing that middle failings so this is just a bookkeeping situation up here.

Dips pips and hips find them don't even need to memorize this all righty.

So knowing all of that look at this poor soul who arrived in the e r looking like this or e d we're all working to change from emergency room emergency department.

What is wrong here ?

And look at that cute little sesamoid bone.

So what do you do when you see something like this ?

Get oriented ?

What are the names of the bones ?

Then you can figure out what the names of the joys and you are so ready to tell me and what you're saying hiss correct first.

This is ray one that thumb interval and she'll join we need tony respects if i approximate distant because there isn't approx more distal in the thumb, all righty good work.

That's it.

You are now ready for the first exam.

Do you feel ready ?

You can do this okay, so let's move on to the lower extremities.

And where do you think the lower extremity starts ?

Where did we leave off with the axial skeleton ?

How how inferior did we get with the actual skeleton safe from the toxics no mention of the so called hip bones ?

So probably our discussion of the lower extremity is going to start with thes hip bones whatever they are so, oh, i see a word here koksal bones must be the name of the hip bones so we'll learn all about the cocks all bones and the thigh bone or femur you'll learn toe orient them will consider sex differences in the pelvis.

We will identify the joints and ligaments and then learn some peculiarities of the structure of the femur in terms of its angular angulo elation, and we will look at some things that can go wrong at the hip so here we go.

This is what leonardo was looking at five hundred years ago, and it's remarkably the same as what we would see when we look at it.

So we're now we're talking about these two big bones call the koksal bones and the femur.

That's what we'll be talking about today.

As well as all of the rest of the lower extremities.

If i would get a move on, okay, so we talked about the shoulder turtle being clavicle and scapula.

So the analog to that in the lower extremities are thes.

Cox soul bones and they belong to the ap indyk euler skeleton.

They belong to the lower extremities, sometimes the cocks of bones air called thehe nominate bone, which just means that they don't have names and you'll see that we'll make more sense in a moment.

The sake rem, which also forms this now fixed and rid should girdle bony.

Girdle is actually part of the axial skeleton, and here is why the koksal bones are sometimes called in nominates because they're really formed by a fusion of three bones, each of which has a name.

So the most superior bone is called the ilium.

The bone that you're sitting on right now, your so called sit bones and yoga class.

It is actually is she, um and then anterior early coming together front.

Our bones called the pubic bones, just where you would expect them to be when these bones come together to landmarks emerge on the lateral aspect thie asa tabula mme and that's going to be the for you of your hip socket and then there's a big for raymond i called the operator for rain, so we don't have those two landmarks until these bones come together.

However, we do have landmarks on each individual bone that we need to learn.

So let's start with the ilium.

This is the bone you can put your hands on easily or not depending on the amount of subcutaneous tissue that you might have so we've got anterior and post areas superior and inferior spines on the ilia, we have a not a great, big notch.

We have a crest.

We have some lines.

Blue teal, you could guess where those are a rick euler service surface.

This means like an ear, an ear shaped thing ayla wings and a fossa.

So let's go looking and i guess what i'm going to do is ask you if you have any idea where these places are and feel freighter have your neighbor help me out here you can collaborate what anterior here just and how would you know one of these bones is more anterior than the other in the pink and the blue.

Notches spines a lot oh, my how are we doing a couple more seconds ?

Please, let's get this wrapped up.

And here we go.

Let's talk.

What's anterior ?

What superior inferior he ilium is the superior bone.

The ilium and ishii, um are the inferior bomb bones pink here is the pubic bone in privacy, you can feel your pubic bone, and you will you can kind of imagine this shape while you're doing that pal patient.

So the so this is the anterior side of the ilium.

So that's where we would find both the anterior superior and an anterior inferior spines on the ilium.

Can you feel any of these ?

Yes, you can quite easily find your own asis anterior superior iliac spine please do that.

Then if you walk post eary early from your sigh ass, you're running your hands right along this iliac crest all the way back to the post cheerier superior iliac spine, uh some of you might have a little dimple here where the skin is very near this bony landmark, you can see that if not, you can feel it.

If you press in there with your thumbs, you'll be able to feel that spine and this one is buried in musculature see can't feel it if you keep rounding the corner here this big notches greater cyanotic.

The big blade of bone is the whole ayla of the ilium, and there's some raised lines.

Why do you think they're there ?

The glute heel muscles you all know about claudius max glued ius maximus that's kind of show one edge of its attachment.

Okay, we'll learn more about that later, and so if we flip this about and look at the medial surface again like the scapula, the the medial surface is going to be nice and smooth, and you can see the fossa on the medial surface, as well as thie a regular surface.

And that's where that's an articular surface for what bone.

The safe room.

This is where the ilium articulates articulate, so the sake grow iliac joint.

Maybe some of you have seen us therapist for something gone wrong in the joint between the sacred and the ilium.

I know i did when i took up rowing and was rowing with very bad form and messed up my, uh s i joint so let's move now inferior early and talk about the isham issue, um, and we're going to move inferior lee and post eary early and much less work to do here gotta find the spine got to find a notch, a big something or other to ferocity and a ramos we noah ramos is going to be an extension of bone.

We've seen that in the mandible and so can you please tell me where what landmark three is here's lamb mark three and you are.

So there that's great you have identified.

Thie is shell to ferocity if you sit on a hard seat and get uncomfortable, that's because the soft tissue between the chair and the issue of tuba rosti getting compressed.

That's why i ksl so many of those chair pad.

Medial side of the issue no medial side.

This doesn't look the same as when they looked at the medial side before and saw the iliac fossa.

This is rotated a little bit, but how do i know it's medio ?

Because i do not see the asa tabula theus a tabula mb is, of course, the lateral landmark because that's going to receive the head of the femur, so we have a spine that must be the issue of spine and here extension of bone.

The ramos of the issue mme reaching anterior, lee to articulate with the ilium excuse me with the pubis and the pubis last and least very few landmarks to learn here.

So we've got a superior ramos we've got an inferior ramos reaching towards the ilium reaching towards the issue and what's in between is the body no.

Okay, we're not doing a question here this is that same view.

This is a medial view.

We're looking at the articular surface on ilium for the sake room.

Here's thie ob to raider for raymond but we do not see the asa tabula mme.

So we know this is medial.

Here's the pubic bone the pubis its anterior superior pubic ramos reaching for the ilium inferior pubic ramos reaching post eary early for the issue and the body in between easy and all labelled for you there.

Okay, do you have mature koksal bones.

You didn't when you were a year old.

You didn't when you entered first grade but by the time you left high school you had a mature had mature cox i some of you may not have completely finished fuses that is shield to veracity a secondary ossification center on the issue, but likely were a room full of mature pelvic girls.

Okay, so when we assemble the two koksal bones together with the sake room, we get a whole help us the pelvic girdle has some landmarks that we talk about.

There's something called the brim of the pal vis the ring of bone that the females in the room might have the pleasure of passing a fetal head through, and we have an angle between the two pubic bones called the pubic arch, just where you might expect it to be now.

While we're here, let's look at those asa tabula if they were oriented perfectly laterally.

We wouldn't be able to look into them, but they're rotated a little bit anterior lee and that will have a consequence that we'll talk about later.

All righty.

So what holds thes three bones together we have to talk about some joints so post eary early.

The two say crowe iliac joints are synovial.

There's not a lot of movement there, but nonetheless there synovial so that our regular surface on the koksal bones will be coated with highland car.

Lige there'll be a joint space.

Synovial joints anterior early the famous pubic simp assis.

So the two pubic bones have a joint anterior lee that is a five bro cartilage joint that joint space is filled with fei broke cartilage.

What is the other simp assis that we've talked about ?

Where is the other fiber carla's joy that we've talked about him.

Thank you in a vertebral discs.

So the two sympathies that we're going to focus on in here are all of those interviews vertebral discs viral cartilage, joints sympathies and the pubic synthesis already not much mobility there.

However, if you're pregnant, there's a little bit more mobility now before you get alarmed notices doesn't happen very often.

Okay, but sometimes this joint can separate.

And of course, hopefully your obstetrician would have called for a c section before this.

But anyway, let's talk about that so fi bro cartilage is affected by a by a hormone called relax in that gets secreted in pregnancy, and that allows relaxing of those fibers that are in fibra cartilage, so that allows a little bit of stretch there in that fibra cartilage, which is gonna make the pelvic brim bigger, which could be convenient if you're delivering so in a non pregnant female that cartilage there's there's a size half a centimeter.

If you're pregnant that space might get a little bit wider, it's still being.

Oh, let's get rid of this picture quickly showing and let's consider the post year a joint post eary early.

The sacred iliac joint is synovial, so there will be ligaments by definition that reinforce that joint capsule and they have names.

The one on the anterior side is thie anterior secret iliac ligament the one on the post year side is called the post cheerier.

It's a crow iliac ligament.

Here's the median sacred quest so we know where post hairier writing so can you please tell me ?

Where is the sake grow spine ifs ligament let the words guide you to the answer sake grow spine iss all right where have you clicked and you have clicked on couple of things i in particular and thrilled to see this cluster here because this landmark is thie.

Is she'll spine ?

So a ligament from the sacred to a spine is right here ?

This is the issue to barasa city, so this is not the sake ro spine ist ligament.

In fact, that would be the sake rose tuberous ligament from the sacrum to a tuba ross iti.

So there's everything labeled for you and look what i have a hole and then fill it was stuff.

The operator for raymond is filled with his operator membrane, which is fibrous connective tissue, so having the whole reduces the weight of carting around extra bone.

Feeling it with this fibrous men brain provides for attachment area for muscles.

So let's talk sex and pelvises so on the left we have a female pelvis and on the right a male pelvis.

Now the female pelvis has a job to do that.

The male pelvis does not.

So let's consider how the shape of the female pelvis might accommodate delivery of the next generation.

So the in order to accommodate that fetal head we've got, eh bigger space anterior lee excuse me.

This would be medial lateral in the female pelvis.

In comparison to the mail, we have a shorter, pubic, symphonies, simp acis and a wider pubic arch.

The issue will spines there's a greater distance between them here, you can see them protruding into this space more, and then when we think of women's pelvises from the outside, we think of them being typically broader than male.

That's because thes alia are flared laterally rather than being more vertically oriented, typically in the male pelvis so armed with that information, let's consider the obstetrician's feel of a female pelvis, and here's some dimensions that might be relevant.

What is this space medio trans verse lee and anterior post dearly ?

Now we're happy to have a little bit of mobility in that cock.

Six, we can get a fume or centimeters of space by swinging that cock six out of the way, so the fetal head enters the pelvis at the inlet exits at the outlet.

So anything we can do to make those space is bigger will be useful.

So one thing that we can do is swing.

The cox is out of the way.

The other thing is to have the say krill prominent ori, not be as pronounced.

So what do you think of these held by that was the wrong thing to click on okay, what did i need to do here ?

I needed to open this question and then i need to go back here.

So if you were a fetus which one of these pelvises would you prefer on your way into the world ?

And you have voted for it's a toss up.

Uh, here's the female on the right.

Let's talk about why so two things to bump your head on while getting born are these issues spines right ?

See how these issues spines air protruding into that pelvic from space.

So in the mail those fines face medial lateral in the female, there opened up a bit.

So this the fact that you don't see the spines here is characteristic of a typical female pelvis.

The other thing you see here in the male pelvis is the sacred prominent ori protruding into the space.

I don't see that here right maybe you chose this one because you saw these great big laterally facing ayla.

Remember that this is like the skull.

There's a continuum of male female miss in pelvic shape.

So don't be fooled by that here.

The key the spines, the pram in torrey and the angular ation of this pubic archer important see how broad this angle is in the female pelvis and how it's more acute in the male pelvis.

So those are the key features all righty so no female pelvis shape is related tio obstetrics all demands on the pelvis.

What can that help us learn about our ancestors ?

By the way i'm just gonna do a non sequitur here did anybody happen to see that a new job bone was found in an israeli cave ?

I think last week did you stop and think what's the name of that bone ?

Did anybody stop and think the new york times called it a job ?

Bones ?

Did you stop to think about whether it was a maxillary or a mandible ?

I did and anybody who saw the picture ?

Can you tell me which one it was ?

You saw a hard palate.

You saw a bony roof of the mouth attached to those teeth, so it was a mandible.

That's what happens when this stuff gets in your head.

You're never you're never clear of it.

You can't read the newspaper without thinking and out of me.

Okay, so anyway back to obstetrics all demands on the pelvis.

What did lucy three million years ago ?

How big were the heads of australopithecus scenes ?

How big were the brains will one way to tell us look the pelvis if you don't have a sculpt to look at so here's lucy's pelvis and a modern female pelvis, and you can see that they're not the same.

We do have some anti rh why ?

By calling this direction and tear post here today you have some trans verse with here for lucy let's look at what this might mean so here's a chimp.

Here's lucy and here's a modern human.

It looks like chimps don't have any space in their pelvis for chimp births that's just due to this rotation so don't be alarmed.

But what you see ?

There are where are these ayla these blades these wings, the ilia here post area there.

And if you feel your cat or your dog, that's where you'll feel their alia almost on their on their back blank here lucy's ayla are starting to rotate laterally, and you can see that the sake from has widened, which is what's giving her more of a trance.

First diameter on this pelvic space and but for us, you can see even mohr rotation latterly a relatively even broader sacrum to a comedy birth.

Um, so how important is it will that be on the test ?

If you understand that shape of the pelvis you won't have to think about.

Okay, so anyway.

We've done the pelvis.

Let's move on down to the femur.

Whoa! We got a long list for the femur.

There's a head.

There's something on the head of the femur of faux veer capitals where there's a head.

There's often a neck.

There's some big bumps with special names tro cantor's there's a crest in between the tro cantor's inter tro can tear a crest ah line middle daughter con dials things on the conn dials medial lateral, eh pecan dials a notch between the con dials a teuber coal related to the adductor muscles and a cassette for the patella right now you know what that means that means a smooth place where the hotel is going to articulate with the femur.

So here we go here is a femur, an anterior view of a femur and you've got some work to do and while you're doing that, would you write the number ?

Thirty two on a piece of paper and hand it down and i'll come around and pick those oh, your name and the number sorry.

It takes her a long time to learn to do something new that would be me.

We're doing it the old fashioned way today.

Thank you when you're done with this you can get back to the femur and by the way they finally gave me the data for last week.

Forgive me half whatever you if you want to keep it for me the whole thing to have whatever you want oh, if you are still just make sure i get this piece of paper with your name and the number thirty two before you leave thirty two thirty two i decided to move away from odd numbers to even numbers today.

Okay, thank you isn't this silly thing i'm asking to do a little peace is good.

We're saving trees, good job.

Okay, fall half paper i'll feel so productive when i'm doing this job later today.

Thank you.

Thank you.

We got your name on it or me, wonderful and thank you and if a slide shows with the number in it later today i'll be very embarrassed i don't remember if i put it in or not okay, this is this is kind of fun for me all right, but meanwhile, you're still doing the femur.

Thank you paper the world of paper.

Oh, did you just have to identify one landmark no.

Okay.

Thank you very much for cooperating with me on this well, this is gonna take me some time.

Okay, thank you.

Fabulous.

To you.

E.

It is now appreciate that okay.

Lend mark five.

Which one of these words looks like that landmark.

And you have chosen.

A linear aspira.

Yes, a line a line on the post year aspect of the femur a raised line of bone is the linnea espera.

Here are the greater tro canter we can see that from a post year of you and on the post here we see the lesser tro cantor and a crest of bones.

Joining the two we saw the medial epic conta last time in his posterior view.

We can see these rounded knuckles or con dials of the femur and the notch between them.

All righty so and a clue where the distal medial post ear e er femur is all righty we have distal.

Oh, meet a proximal is going to be the part of the femur that articulates with the acid tabula me's so this end is the proximal part, so it would be down here what's post airier the left or the right we talked about the linear espera.

The line of bone is posterior.

That's your clue to post area anterior surface of the femur iss move and distantly.

We know it has to be.

Here's the distal end this side of the femur is the same side as the head so we know that's medial.

We know this right bone is the post eerie ofyou so good work.

Already.

Femurs have this head and neck, and then it turns a corner and the shaft is oriented at an angle with respect to the neck of the femur.

Unlike the humerus, it was kind of like a cartoon bone, just one straight line femur has this corner innit it has an angle between the neck and the chef, and that angle is called the angle of inclination.

I guess you can think of it is thie.

Incline fine the neck of the femur with respect to the shaft.

And not everyone is the same population.

I mean one hundred.

Twenty five degrees is how far is thie angle of that neck of the femur.

But some of us have a smaller, then one hundred twenty five degree angle.

So must have a bigger, one hundred twenty five degree angle.

That angle makes a difference with regards to the alignment of your lower extremity because the head is going to tell you where your hip joint is, but depending on that angle is going to tell you what when you're standing where your knees are going to be with respect to your hip joints.

If you have a bigger angle, your knees are going to be farther apart when you're standing.

And when that angle is smaller, is going to bring your knees closer together.

So of course, you could bring your knees close together or for a part bye.

Add an abduction that has nothing to do with this.

If you put your feet under your hip joints, this tells you where you're need joints are with respect to each other.

So that's that's why we're spending time thinking about this inclination angle so let's learn these words.

These air very important.

Cox tells you cock so bone.

This tells you an angle somewhere near koksal bones.

In fact, it's on the femur, but it's giving us general location vera and val ghous vera has an r in it so does the word reduced ?

Valda has an l in it, like the word larger cox of valka larger than the typical angle.

They're, uh, reduced with respect to this typical angle.

One hundred twenty five degrees.

Greater than one hundred twenty five degrees valka less than one hundred twenty five degrees vera, you need to know this in this case, the colors of the words do make a difference.

Cock severa is going with this picture.

Cox of alga this picture and this definition are going to get okay, so here's some camera and are we looking at the anterior or posterior aspects of these favors ?

Do you see alinea espera so we must be looking at the post cheerier side, and there is a difference in length.

There's a difference in kind of robust iss ity of theis linear aspira, and there's also a difference in inclination angles.

The's are vastly different.

So which of these femurs might be associated with being knock kneed.

If someone is knock kneed, their knees tend to be together when they're standing there.

Do you think that would be cocks of vera or cocks of val gone ?

Cox of vera.

When that angle is acute that's going to bring your knees closer together.

So this one i don't know what these angles are haven't later protractor on here but this one is smaller, obviously a smaller inclination angle than this one.

Okay, so you have mature femurs we all have mature femurs we all have mature pelvis is we all have mature femurs ?

We should feel good about that just by the fact of the sudden going around the planet a bunch of times already.

So the hip joint is zeno veal.

He s a tabula mb is covered with highland cartilage.

The head of the femur is covered with highland car.

Lige nice and smooth for that head of the femur to rotate in the ass a tabula is that a little pale there on the head of the femur that's unusual we're gonna talk about that in a moment, even though the acid tabula mint is much deeper than the glen oid fossil, there's a nice bony cop there it's deepened even more with a lay brum just like we saw the glen oid lay brum at the glendale humorous joint there's an asa tabular ll abram here at the ask the tabula mme.

That deepens this sock it even more so you can see highland cartilage you can see the joint space joint capsule and ligaments reinforcing all of the characteristics of a synovial joint.

Let's talk about this tale.

It turns out for peculiar anatomical developmental reasons the blood supply two, the bone inthe e head of the femur doesn't come up through the diagnosis of the femur.

It jumps across from the pelvis to the femur and it passes through this ligament that looks round and so it's called the round ligament.

And so if something damages that synovial joint and this blood supply gets interrupted, there's a very particular pathologic pickled condition that results.

Remember that there was this term bovina capital that was listed under the femur.

Originally, so if you look at a bear femur, just the bone you'll see a little pit in the head.

That's the phobia capitals.

That's where this round ligament attach is.

So if this blood supply coming through the round arteries in the round ligament to there secondary ossification center here at the head of the femur.

If that's interrupted, what happens well, what happens is something called a vascular.

Necrosis necrosis means death so death of the bone because no blood supply.

A vascular means no blood and so that the bone those bone cells can't survive they die and the bone necrosis.

Does this look like a nice happy ?

Joy ?

No, it does not so this is an x ray of individuals with a vascular necrosis while we're here what else can we see ?

Here's the lesser tro cantor.

Here's the greater troll cantor.

Here's the neck of the femur here's the shaft of the famer look at this thick cortical bone there's trebek euler bone in the dye afis ists of the femur here we've got the ob traitor for raymond this is the superior ramos of the pubis.

Here's thie issue to barasa t and let's talk about some of those other ligaments so because the hip joint to synovial they're going be ligaments that reinforced the joint and so.

Those have names from the ilium to the femur.

This is the y ligament and upside down why here's a ligament from the pubis to the femur.

Here's a ligament from the issue geum to the femur and one of them limits the amount of hyper extension that we can do and that ligament would be which one please.

And that ligament is the quickly.

Something here is going to be stretching when the hip hyper hyper stands and so that's going to be the it turns out a leo ephemeral ligament the one in front, the y ligament, and that leads us to ask this question.

What's up with this woman ?

Did she just have a really really really stretchy ?

Hey, leo ephemeral ligament because it looks like she's not limited to fifteen degrees of hyper extension looks like she's got ninety degrees of hyper extension.

But if we look closely, we will see that she is cheating to give us the illusion of ninety degrees of hyper extension.

Here is her tha rast explain in her rib cage a great deal of hyper extension in her lumbar spine and and tear your till her pelvis.

So what looks like ninety degrees of hyper extension is certainly more than fifteen degrees.

But it's not ninety degrees because we've got the illusion here because of her mobility at other joints alrighty any of you have a grandpa, not this fractured there him.

If you don't know you likely will someday soon that's because with osteoporosis in the neck of the femur, the neck of the fever becomes weakened.

If you combine that with elderly individuals, not being able to control their balance is well and falling mohr.

We've got more falls onto a weaker structure and a hip fracture occurs.

So knowing what you know now, what is a hip fracture is that the koksal bone that's breaking is that the femur that's breaking in fact, is the femur and it's a proximal femur do tow osteoporosis of thie trebek euler bone in this prison.

Femur.

These details are not important i will never ask you where is a sub patrol ?

Can terek fracture ?

All of these pictures are just to reinforce in your mind that hip fractures are typically fractures of the proximal femur.

And that could happen in lots of different places on the proximal femur.

So why does it happen there ?

We've got all of this trebek euler bone in the piff assis in the proximal femur.

And when that begins to be resort and you lose bone mass in the in those trebek yah late in the proximal femur, the bone gets weaker.

The bone is lost in a very predictable fashion, and so that the amount of osteoporosis that an individual has can be grated by how much trebek euler bone shows up in x ray.

So this is worst.

This is what it stopped, so these air the boat typical lines of trebek.

Yah lee and they stay start disappearing in characteristic ways.

And it's so characteristic this the severity of osteoporosis can be grated.

That again.

Are these details important ?

No.

What's important, this is explained to you the mechanism for why hip fractures occur.

Or rather why the proximal femur is vulnerable to fracture.

Because it's losing strength because it's losing this trebek euler bone with osteoporosis.

So when that happens sometimes a prosthesis and endo pross thesis, a hip replacement is called for.

That might happen secondary to a fracture or with osteoarthritis of thiss joint and a very, very, very painful condition.

So much so that you're willing basically tohave proximal end of your femur amputated and replaced with and endo prosthesis.

I talked earlier about the orientation, the asa tabula.

I might have expected that it would be directly lateral, but we've seen that it's rotated a little bit and interior lee.

So if we look at a trans verse view of a section through a cox obama, this is what the typical pelvis might look like.

So let's get oriented.

This is the pubic rate ramos, not that you would know it, but it's labeled here for you.

So this is anterior direction and here's post here here.

Here's the issue for ramos that's post cheerier.

And if you draw a line across the opening of the acid tabula mme, it's typically rotated a little bit anterior early or dhs and diverted, so that's our slightly and her role lateral orientation of this acid tab.

Some people, however, i have retro over tid acid tabula, meaning that they're slightly oriented post eary early so what are the consequences of that ?

Well, uh, let's just before we get there.

Let's look at some scan.

So here's anne marie a lot of musculature around our hip joint here is koksal bone.

Here is the head of the femur and here's thie asa tabular opening and because this is conveniently labelled front for us.

Although we might label it anterior, you can see that this is oriented slightly anterior, lee slightly anterior and diverted as we just saw.

Here is a wretch slightly retro overdid asa tabular opening.

So, in fact, some people actually have this.

Here's some evidence for that state.

Now what's connected to the head of the femur the next ?

So if you were to immediately rotate your femur, what does that mean ?

It means the neck of the femur is swinging anterior early.

So if you have retro overdid, asa tabular opening what's gonna happen.

The neck of that femur is goingto bump against structure that might cause a problem.

And in fact, that's what that looks like so here we have a s a tabula.

Here's the head of a femur neck of the femur and here's a little indented in the head of the fever femur.

That's the faux via capital where the round ligament would attach and with medial rotation.

This neck is swinging anterior, lee, and you can see that it might impinge on that or bump into that interior as a tabula.

If you have a lot of acid tabular coverage here you can see it as in a retro overdid as a tabula mu khun see that there's actually going be contact.

The opposite.

This scenario is true.

Also, what if you have a shallow asa tabula ?

What do you going to be at risk for there ?

That's another question, so here is the kind of damage that can happen with a retro overdid acid tab.

And you can see that you have actual fracture in the koksal, bone there or wear and tear, and some bone spurs laid down.

So there are consequences to us having congenital differences in how our skeleton manifests and our individual peanut.

Well did i get through a whole lecture and we are we still have ten minutes to spare.

Is that some kind of a record on my part i think it might be.

So anyway.

We have time you can ask me questions about the exam if something came up for you over the weekend.

I'll just hang out here in the classroom for a few minutes, but otherwise you have time you have fifteen minutes to completely enjoy being on scheduled for