I am officially starting with a very big voice.

Wow, how do i turn that volume down here ?

Do we like that better am i loud enough ?

Know now i'm not loud enough now, am i, okay, it's a good back.

There are you okay, all right.

So i am three minutes late this morning but let me tell you what what i got a surprise for that i got to hear you talking to each other that was really great because as soon as i start talking, everyone goes quiet so anyway.

That was a treat to hear that you're actually alive and talking in the mornings.

So an announcement i will no longer accept paper numbers numbers of the day on paper.

That is, unless you're participating all day on paper, but the little scraps of paper with a number on it just isn't working for me.

So i'm sometimes your computer doesn't work.

And that's why you need to do it.

So i'll just give you a heads up to make sure your computer is working before a nazi a number.

So i hope that this won't inconvenience anyone too much, but i need to do that okay any questions for me before i get started on assignments on anything many, many, many assignments out there underway all right you see now we're entering into the no, no talk to me.

So all right let's continue on with knees and ankles.

We're gonna be talking about knees and ankles today, but just to check in to see where you are with finding your way around thes char sel bones here is an image of ah hominid foot that was found a couple of years ago in israel and i would like you to sort out which her soul.

Do you think might be missing your knowledge of modern human ?

Tar souls can help you.

Maybe the person next to you who was telling you what they did last night can also tell you what parcel is missing.

It's it's amazing.

What a little knowledge how far you could go with a little knowledge and let's let's call already.

What do you think you think it's the medial cuneiform or the cue boy good narrowing it down to two.

So let's think about that.

The q boyd last time we learnt to associate with the cal kania ce right so let's find the calle que nous here's the calle que nous and the calle que nous at least in the modern human particulates with the q boyd the navicular articulates with the three q nia forms.

So my vote would be a missing medial cuneiform so i'm going to check and see if that fear all righty so just drive this point home.

Let's look at a modern human and find the lateral cuneiform just to get this all straightened out about ten more people need to weigh in here all right, and there are ten people, so let's see what we've got.

Almost all there again.

Cal k gnaeus you boy cal k gnaeus is lateral so this must be the lateral cuneiform so a whole bunch of you got that right good work all right.

I was eating breakfast in montreal last summer and i had to go to the restroom and this was on the door.

So i rushed back to my bag and got my phone and took this picture and i am going to ask you what did i see when i saw this gal on the women's restroom door ?

What inclination angle at the hip would align this young woman's knees so that they're closer together the knock kneed so called knock kneed alignment of the lower extremities.

What's going on in the femur ?

There's going to be responsible for this.

Once you know that then there's just a rule to apply to figure out what's going on with me what we call it in the knee and you've done that so let's see what we have here.

Pretty much.

We have a majority correct, but there are a lot of other people who are still sorting this out.

That's fine.

It take some sorting out.

It might take some drawing on your part, but i've.

But i just want to highlight that it's important to sort this out.

So if you don't get it clear in your mind sometime pretty soon and certainly before the next exam, please be sure to talk to me about it.

We're talking the study group or ask somebody in here who seems to have it okay, just a heads up on that all right, so let's continue on with the knee.

I stopped last time when we got to this slide because with only five minutes left, there were too many words on this slide for even me to deal with it.

So what's important about all these words is a lot of detail that you can refer back to this kind of a summary on the cruciate ligaments so on the inside of the tibia ephemeral joint inside that joint cavity our two ligaments that cross so they're called the cruciate ligaments.

One is anterior and one is post terrier.

Anterior cruciate post ear ear cruciate.

So this describes all of the details of attachment of those two ligaments, sometimes people remember them by lamp lateral attach is on excuse me.

The anterior cruciate goes lateral toe and here.

This is complicated to me.

I think there's an easier way to remember it, but you might see this somewhere.

So what do these ligaments do ?

Well, we can see that they're preventing rotation hyper extension, and then something new anterior tibial motion.

That's an anterior post eerie er translation, linear movement of the tibia underneath the femur.

Now, we haven't seen that in other joints they rotate or they glide.

This joint is doing both hey and interestingly.

It looks like the anterior prevents excessive rotation, and the post cheerier prevents excessive rotation as well.

So that's complicated.

But what is clearly different about the cruciate ligaments is thie is how they prevent anterior post ear ear movement of thie tibia.

And that's what we're going to focus on.

So which one of these do you think might be the anterior cruciate ligament ?

Are you looking at an anterior or post your rear view of the tibia get oriented first and then make a guess.

And what have you guessed ?

You have guests mostly number.

One is the anterior cruciate.

They totally agree.

This is thie tibial to barasa t so we're looking at the anterior proximal tibia here and isn't that convenient thie anterior cruciate ligament presents itself anterior.

Lee when we're looking at the anterior aspect lovely so nice when it makes sense and there they are labeled for you now.

Here's a random question we talked to about the medial and lateral collateral ligaments last time.

Can you just sort out this anatomy and figure out which one of the's ligaments bite be the lateral collateral ligament ?

A random not random, no something different, but still related to the knee ligaments.

Okay looks like you've got that done and please please please please everybody have clicked on the lateral.

Yes, mostly good work so again and get oriented is this anterior post airier i do not see the tibial to barasa t so this is a post your your view.

I see thief emerald con dials and the intercon duller notch so that we know that's posterior on the femur.

So i'm post airier that really doesn't matter to answer this question because what you have to notices the fibula and the fibula is lateral.

So the ligament attaching to the lateral of these two bones is the lateral collateral whether you're looking at it from an anti air post your review so good work so hello people over here.

This is medial the medial side.

There's the tibia and what do we see ?

Here we see the medial collateral ligament associating actually attaching, too.

This structure remember that the medial meniscus has a relationship with the medial collateral ligament.

We talked about that last time.

And what do you think ?

This is a few people clicked on this one pcl post your collateral ligament issue me post here cruciate thank you.

I got the c word but the wrong one in there.

Okay, and there's everything labeled for you moving on.

Can you find the medial meniscus ?

Whoa challenge, but you can do this.

You have lots of bits of information that you can bring to this question.

To sort this out.

You can't have memorized a fact that you could apply.

You could have reasoned your way to this.

And i would put a star on this slide because this is something i i might ask you on an exam.

This one i might add.

Okay, how are we doing ?

We're doing very well here we go and we don't quite know but mostly we know so you could have memorised one of the miss sea shaped one is more circular, but the fail safe.

One that relates to the function and the injury rate is this association right here.

So here's the here.

Let me back up.

Here's a meniscus that has a relationship with a collateral ligament here is a meniscus that does not attach to a lateral ligament.

There is the definitive diagnosis right there.

The medial meniscus is attached to the medial.

Collateral ligament burn that in so what are these things ?

These stubs those are the cruciate ligament oh, i think i didn't let me just covered up.

I'm not going to cover it up because the answer is here and you might want to look at this later.

Okay, and there we go.

So which one of these stubbs ligaments stubs might be the anterior cruciate ligament.

This is really hard.

Is there anything here that helps you sort out anterior from post area.

Okay.

We're working on this but this one's hard i'm going to stop here and do i have the answer new.

Okay, so we're gonna talk through this we identify this is the medial collateral ligament so that must mean this is the lateral collateral ligament over here so the lateral collateral ligament attach is to what bony structure.

I see some of you reaching towards your lateral aspect of your knee.

Congratulations is the right thing to do.

And if you're doing that, you're feeling the head of your fibula.

So remember your fibula is a little bit posterior.

You see it posterior.

So this is post airier the other thing that we will come to learn about is this is your patellar ligament anterior.

Lee now we haven't talked about that.

So it's a little bit challenging of me to ask you this question at this point.

But that's how this is definitely anterior.

So this is thie anterior cruciate ligament and most of you got there good job all right.

The anterior cruciate ligament gets injured much more often than the post iria cruciate ligament.

This does not represent inherent difference in strength between these two ligaments, but rather the exposure of the knee in our normal way that we move and interact with the environment.

So it's more vulnerable to being loaded in a way that's going to enter it.

So it's it's not something different about them is just the jobs that they do and look at that nasty lister, you're gonna have to memorize that new valukas loading plus knee flexion plus lateral tipple tibial rotation so it's a complicated rotation and we see this word.

Various loading.

Remember what that wass validus loading was here so it's somehow loading this direction, but with lateral rotation of the tibia remember we thought the knee only flex and extended.

So what's this rotation this motion in the transfers plane in the frontal plane ?

I told you that movements are complex or knee.

Hyper extension and medial rotation of the tibia.

None of these air, good right.

None of these are good.

Women are more at risk for thes injuries than men, and there is an awful lot of by mechanical research going on for why that might be the case.

Some of you might be looking at that in your article review.

So what are we looking at here ?

We're looking at ephemeral contact.

We're looking at a busted a c l right you can see that it's torn moving on.

This is important because this explains to you the role of the ellen, the pcl and preventing.

These translation are ante or post cheerier movements of the tibia underneath the femur in the draught to know it.

I ask you to draw this and i really recommend that you do that because once you draw this, you won't have to memorize anything about the because you'll be able to figure it out from your drawing, you get that picture in your mind.

It really really helps to understand all of this, so let's get anterior sorted out tibia tibial tubarao city helps us understand anterior, and as we saw previously, you identify that the ligament that you seek the cruciate ligament that you see from this anterior aspect is thie anterior one.

So what happens if i grab onto this tibia and pull it ?

Open pull it anterior luke can opening a drawer going to stretch that a c l.

And similarly, if i pushed the drawer back into the dresser past the front of the dresser, it's kind of stress stretch the pc.

So those are the drawer movements.

The tibia opening and closing like a drawer in the anti rh direction, post your direction and those movements particularly stretch the on the pcl so we can take that information and use it clinically to find out about the integrity of these ligaments.

Who who do you think we have some laxity in the there ?

Yeah, and what about here ?

Pco right ?

That's that those are some needs that i have some issues with their cruciate ligament.

So what you just saw ?

Wass clinical hands on demonstrating these drawer movements and in one case you saw one hand another case you saw two hands, so the athletic trainers out there will will focus on the lock him and test.

For example, what's important to me is that you understand the relationship of these ligaments and how they restrict thes drawer movement on a so one laugh dis mall slide on injuries to the knee is this one the unsold called unhappy triad.

If you get a blow to the lateral side of the name with under if you could imagine the foot here is fixed in the ground with para cleats, for example.

That's a so called val ghous load.

If going to in increase the medial me angle and tear the medial collateral ligament the media cloud or ligament is attached to the medial meniscus.

So if this blow is bad enough, it's going to rip the medial meniscus, and then once that knee joint is opened up can damage the so this kind of a load can just wipe out three structures in the need.

That's the so called unhappy triad and a various load that is increasing this angle that previously we called jen you malcolm.

Is anybody experienced this unhappy triad in here.

Oh good aren't we lucky.

Okay, so we're not completely done.

We've been spending a lot of time talking about that hibi o ephemeral joint previously known as the knee joint.

But there's another joint here between the patella and the femur.

The patella ephemeral joint.

It's wrapped up in this synovial joint.

So what's happened here is that the structures the joint capsule has been cut, and it's been reflected downwards so you can see that articular surface of the patella and over here you see a sad gentle view and you see this trebek euler bone in the epiphany seas of the femur and the tibia.

But what's really nice about this ?

As you can see the wedge shape of the menace sky before you just saw words that they said they were web wedge shaped.

But here you can really see that.

So not look at this nice thick highland cartilage on these joint surfaces and so we're looking at that joint that thick cartilage on the post here aspect of the patella that's articulating with the distal femur anterior lee and here is that ligament that you saw previously.

That's the ligament that connects the patella to the tibia.

So the patel oh, ephemeral joint typically the patella tracks in a no healthy way between those ephemeral con dials.

But if someone has a large q angle so that that quatre six steps muscle is pulling laterally on the patella while flexion and extension is going on.

That patella can drift laterally and compress the cartilage on the lateral surface of patellas.

So that's what you see going on.

Here you can see how the patella fits into that groove.

So if you have a shallow notch, then that patella can drift laterally, and that's going put excessive loads than on lateral aspect of the post year patella.

In fact, um these are my daughters, um, her patella actually sub lux tw.

So she has an asymmetry in the depth of her notch here and so this patella just jumped right out.

So what were that kind of ah! That's related, tio a difference in the notching an asymmetry here.

But we're talking about the loading on this lateral post your ear lateral aspect of the patella so that when you flex your knees, you turn on your quadriceps muscle.

So it's exerting force so we have compression force.

No really building up on that lateral aspect.

So here is a view inside the knees of a former to thirty students who had poor patellar tracking.

So she developed something called con tro malaysia.

Patella con tro cartilage now bad bad card lige on her patella so you can see what this looked like in her surgeons arthroscope here this fringe is not what we want.

Ah highland cartilage surface to look like so the surgeon went in and shaved that option.

So it was nice and smooth after the surgery, um, and this student chose not to climb the stairs in that classroom before the surgery because that would cause excessive loading on this cartilage and pain.

So this is kandra malaysia patella.

That's damage on the patella that happens subsequent to this poor patellar tracking finally the patellar ligament connects the patella to the tibial tubarao city.

There it is, and that's the the ligament that you needed to know where it was in the previous life.

So you could recognize that this was anterior, and this would be the a c l so you can see here that this patellar ligament is actually belongs to the quadriceps muscle.

Here's the sesamoid bone in that quadriceps tendon, so some people will call this the patellar tendon and not the patellar ligament strictly speaking it's connecting a bone to a bone, but it also is connecting the quadriceps muscle to the tibia, so both terms are used now what can happen in a in ah adolescent, typically or child.

This quadriceps muscle is attaching to the tibial tuba rossi, and there's a lot of force in the tibial tubarao city.

My brother developed this when he was playing.

He was catcher in his baseball team.

So he spent a lot of time in a flex position with a lot of force and his quadriceps, and that was pulling on his tibial tuba rosset e that had not yet fused secondary ossification center.

And so there's a highland cartilage in there that needs that that joint needs to close at some point, so.

This is what can happen you khun get irritation swelling separating, and this is called ash good slaughter disease growth play is not closed, so it's vulnerable to damage no typically in boys and causing swelling and tenderness and a noticeable bump.

Anybody in here have that you so we've got a someone outside of the population.

Norm here.

Okay, great case study opportunity for you.

Okay, um, that's me all about the knee.

So let's talk about the ankle.

Many, many people in here probably sprained an ankle right anybody here spraying the same ankle more than once.

Yep, yeah, okay, so let's find out what's going on there.

So the ankle is sometimes called the tallow cruel joint, huh ?

Tallow for the tail is cruel, meaning the lower leg so thie joint that does plant reflection dorsa flexion is actually the tallow crew rural joint.

So let's look at that here is in the frontal plane.

The tibia medial malaya lists the fibula, the lateral malaya list and the tailless fits up inside those between those two malaya lie and that sometimes called the ankle mortis thinking of ah mortise and tenon joint if anyone's done woodworking a dovetail joint is an example of a mortise and tenon joint, um, so the tailless rocks and tear their post ear ly in that ankle mortis, and we get dorsey flexion and plant reflection.

What we're going to come to distinguish within the next few minutes is that inversion and e version happens below the tailless.

So at the sub taylor joint between the taylors and the cal kania.

So earlier you learned that the ankle dorsey flexed and planter flexed, but it's really the tallow curl joint that does that movement and the sub taylor joint that does the inversion e version and you can see why the tailor's is stuck in between the feet to malaya lie here all right so tallow crew dorsa flexion plant reflection sub taylor joint so when we sprain our ankle we're really damaging ligaments that control motion at the sub taylor joint.

Because spreading your ankle happens with excessive inversion typically.

Has nothing to do with the ankle the tallow cruel joint already.

So let's look at this sub taylor joint, um, i didn't say this before but i should have you can find your tallow curl join axis by pointing your fingers at your malaya lie right.

And that's where your rotating around your sub taylor access is through the long axis of your foot and you rotate around that.

And that's what that figure is showing you the actual orientation of that access.

And the foot rolls around that in inversion and e version.

So here is a post ear ear view.

And how do i know that well, it's conspicuously missing the metatarsals that's kind of a big clue.

But what else do we see here ?

I see a great big malaya where fossa that tells me i'm looking at the post eerie er aspect of the fibula so we're looking at the rear foot here the tailless and the calle que nous so motions around the sub taylor axis are best viewed from a view where we can see the rear foot because we're going to want to be seeing how the calle que nous moves underneath the tailless and we see that most easily from a posterior view.

Uh, click on the lateral malaya, lesok.

I just pointed out to you the great big fact malaya laure fossa so this is going to be easy.

But aside from that, there's a hefty bone, and there's a slender bone and so of course, the more slender one is the fibula and we know the fibula is lateral.

So are you there are you there you are but there we go oh, yes, good job.

This is not the lateral malaya list.

This is a ligament a lateral malaya lis is on the fibula okay, so in inversion so we're oriented medial lateral post cheerier view when the cal kania sse moves media li we have inversion you can see that in your own foot and when the cal kenya's moves laterally we hav e version, um look for this when you're walking behind people on the diag look at their rear foot.

See what you can see our our people slightly evert id when they walk.

It's it's interesting.

Take it.

Take a peek at that again.

Avoid memorization understand the concept and when you apply it out there on the diag concede even in snow boots.

Okay, the ligament that reinforces the medial aspect of the sub taylor joint is the deltoid ligament.

Okay, so what are we looking at here ?

I see a big hefty bone so this must be the tibia so i know a medial i also see the sussed intact gulum tail i that's medial.

Okay, so there is this deltoid shaped this triangular ligament on the medial aspect, and that is the deltoid legal.

On the lateral aspect.

Oh, dear now we've got the names of three separate ligaments tto learn, but conveniently there named exactly from there origin and their destination.

So there is a ligament that runs from the, uh, tail us to the fibula.

Here's the taylors here's the fibula anterior tallow fibula similarly a post cheerier from the fibula to the tailors and then one from the fibula to the cal kania.

I love it when ligaments were named by where they attack.

These three ligaments are on the lateral aspect.

Duh, there's the fibula.

Okay, now, let's go back to our rear foot view this frontal plainview and figure out the job.

These ligaments are doing so again.

The slender bone distantly is fibula hefty bonus tibia so i know this is lateral.

Here's the taylors here's the cal kane ius the medial ligament deltoid and one of those lateral ligaments which one might this one be fibula to calle que nous done so most injuries at the ankle thes ankle sprains are inversion injuries where your foot inverts excessively you've landed from a jump on somebody's foot.

You have walked on a log like i did and missed and landed you've stepped off of a doormat wrong like i've done and sprained my ankle so it's thes lateral ligaments that get thorne when we invert.

Which ligaments are stretched with excessive and so we're looking at a pair of feet rear view motion and what's going on here inversion of the left ankle.

And so what's getting stretched here ?

The lateral collaterals bill three ligaments that we saw earlier.

And here's the picture cal kenya's rotates immediately tears those lateral ligament can you name any of those lateral ligaments ?

All righty here we go now.

What do we know about the lateral ankle ?

The fibula is over there fibula fibula fibula oh fibula deltoid his medial.

This is an example where if you understand that the fibula is lateral, you can make a really good guess what the answer to this one might be without memorizing anything.

So the only thing wrong here is this fifteen ?

The deltoid ligament would be stretched here.

This movement excessive e version is stretching the medial ligament, which is the deltoid and here we go.

Ok, let's sort out this picture.

I see tibia.

I see some fibrous connective tissue here between the tibia and the fibula.

I see a rotation of the count cal kane ius taking with it the tailless this time, the whole rear foot is rotating in this injury.

When that happens, it pushes the lateral malaya lists laterally, and this a connective tissue his fibrous tissue.

This sinned as moses between the tibia and the fibula is tearing, so this is splitting the two bones apart.

This is what a high ankle sprain is.

Nasty nasty business.

Hi because it's going up higher.

It's moving this tearing is going proximal.

We're done with the foot and ankle we can move on.

We're done only with foot and ankle, but with all of the bones were going to move on to muscles now.

Oh, and it's time for miss everybody.

Have their computers working now and you're you're ready to go.

Let's make this easy three.

Okay.

And holding at three.

And okay, we'll move on to muscle.

So everything we've talked about to date has been a connective tissue muscle is not connective.

Tissue muscle tissue is an entirely different type of tissue.

It comes from a different part of the embryo, and that's how we're going to talk about now.

And what's interesting about muscle is that its mechanical properties its strength it's how responds to being stretched depends on what the nervous system is doing because muscle is activated by the nervous system and so they're so force is not going to be one answer, but it's goingto always depend on has the brain activated this muscle turned it on.

Is it making force so that's entirely different from connective tissue, which is a passive tissue.

It doesn't it does what it does ?

Just is a function of what it is, but muscle is different.

It's active, so we have to peek inside muscle and see how forces getting generated.

We're going to spend a little time on the relationship between force and length in muscle, because that's different than what we saw for connective tissue how muscle fibers are organized within an entity that we call a whole muscle differs between particular muscles.

And then we have to attach muscles to bone and understand how muscles function with respect to moving bones.

So that's our job.

I'm going to start today.

I'll finish next time.

And in this set of lectures, i always have a little bit of room to spill over.

So even though we were supposed to start muscle today and it's almost nine.

Thirty, there's were not really time pressures enough time to do it all.

Okay, so as i said, our attention previously has been completely in this bucket and now we're changing buckets were going overto look att muscle tissue.

So what we call muscles is muscle tissue, but that muscle tissue is connected to bones via connective tissue.

So on either end of a muscle, there is tendon that's going to transmit the force developed by muscle to bones so bones khun move.

So muscle now is slightly ambiguous because does that mean the muscle tendon unit, or does that mean just the muscle tissue, so i will be carefully my language to make sure we know what we're talking about.

Here is a picture of a bone with a tendon, and here is muscle tissue that is connected to the tendon, and in that way is connected to bone.

So remember that when you learned about tendons, there was an organizational structure that emerged it was called hierarchical.

So there were small things that were bundled to make bigger things, and those bigger things were bundled to make even a bigger thing.

Ah, hole ligament or a hole attendant.

So we've got that same arrangement here.

The small thing is the muscle fiber that has a connective tissue wrap around it.

Then the muscle fibers are bundled into something called a facet cole and that's wrapped with something.

And then we have the whole muscle, which is wrapped again.

So the fiber is wrapped with something called endo museum museum is the muscle, a rude word in greek and from the greek, and then endo is inside thiss bundling of muscle fibres is called a fast ical and that's wrapped with the perry museum around of fast ical and then finally, the whole muscle.

The bundle of pasic als is wrapped with the ep in easy.

So these are the relationships in the words you need to know over here.

Were you awake.

This question, i don't expect that you would have memorized it from here to there.

This question is to alert you to the fact that you didn't need to know this heads up question.

And here.

And lookie there we were awake.

Okay.

Uh here's some little videos that i'm going to play um, you can guess the era when these were made here you see a muscle.

However, this contractions sorry.

Oh! Two attacks.

Yeah what no go.

For me.

This is called reveals what like you're going.

A lot of chances.

Slide over.

This is the slide muscular.

Do we think this model was made before computer graphics.

But it really shows the point quite well.

Okay, we get the point all right moving on.

So what i'm what i'm showing you ?

This video is because understanding muscle is going to is something you might learn a lot about in physiology and how muscles make force and how that changes with length is something might learn about biomechanics.

So i'm just trying to get us all on the same page here.

I'm not going to ask you about the physiological details in this course, but you, but we have different backgrounds where you are in the room right now in terms of this physiology, so i just want to give you an overview of what's going on.

And that's what these videos are for.

Do you want ?

Okay.

Fire.

It was made of unit school starts.

Join us he stopped here.

You have to see mine.

Brutus.

There.

Thank you.

Your life hold on here stop the fire work.

Get it.

Or people.

No heads up officer directions in egypt, yeah.

Yeah, yeah.

Mine.

Life.

He's on a lot of girls along routes because let's go.

Ready true.

Yeah, globalised control.

Mine.

Passion, no ?

Work.

Really.

Yeah what closing the actors.

Yeah.

Fine quit it historic, of course, you bet.

Prostration boyle.

Point it's called for contractions continue.

Life.

This.

Life.

It's locked here.

See for you.

Away.

Problem cover the back crossed keys.

Okay, crossbreed.

Wow! There was a lot in there s so let me tell you what is what in that video was relevant to this course, and i'll be doing that over the next couple slides.

So i need you to know what the sarc amir's are sark.

Amir's are these units stack and to end or in siri's in a a muscle fiber and how many sark amir's are stacked in.

Siri's tells you how long the muscle fiber is so that's the little anatomical unit.

And we know that that the sarc amir's is where the action happens in terms of muscle force generation now.

I also want to say that the first line of text on this slide is really important because it tells you what where the muscle cell is the whole muscle fibre is the south the whole muscle fiber.

That's the cellular level muscle fiber.

So that means there are many many sark amir's many many of those miles filaments inside sark.

Amir's inside one muscle cell.

The muscle fiber if you remember from previously was wrapped with a connective tissue sheath called the endo museum right ?

So the end a museum is wrapped around the muscle cells these muscle fibers.

But that's not the only thing that wraps around the muscle fibers.

There's also a membrane called the sarko lemma.

That's the one that can be electrically activated by the nervous system and cause the contraction a sequence of events that you just saw.

So what's important here is the muscle cell.

The circle emma and endo museum wrap around that muscle cell inside the cellar.

Lots of these little myo fi brill's and the mild fibra lt's our no end to end are made of the end to end stacking of this arkham ears.

So the words are important on this slide, not i bansi line center that's for your physiology class.

Yeah, i need you to know that the maya ce and that acting the slides past the miocene molecules, and it's those cross bridges that air formed between those myo filaments that is responsible for the force that's generated in a must.

So the mork cross bridges that are attaching the more force a muscle can make so you get more cross bridges by having more mile filaments being bigger and also having those cross bridges available to attach like we saw in the movie.

If you can't if you can't attach the active demise and you can't make force.

And it turns out that how long a muscle fiber is stretched is critical to how many cross bridges can attach.

Can the act and reach the maya sin can are the act and is the muscle fiber so short that the act in my mile filaments are jammed up against each other, so they also can't attached to my assent so we've.

So if the fibers or too long they can't reach, they can't form, cross bridges.

And if the fibers were too short, the actin gets in the way of reaching the maya sin and forming across bridges.

And as we saw the sarc amir's generate force when they're turned on by muscle.

So in this course, we're going to consider that muscles air turned on full strength, so the brain says go to everything you've got right because that's what but in real life, muscles air turned on partly.

But we're going to assume that it's full force production or no force production.

They're totally pass.

So here is a schematic dry.

It diagram of what i just performed for you up here to love were cramped up.

So let's start ah, is the goldilocks story.

Let's start with the best size bowl or the best size chair.

I don't remember the goldilocks story, but there were three.

There was a too big, too small and just right.

Let's talk about the just right, and it's this one in this case, so red elias and with the cross bridge diagonals can reach every single binding site on the blue acted.

So at this length muscles that muscle fiber khun generate optimum force.

The max force it can ever possibly make in the world is when it's at the b length at the sea length.

It's stretched, so there are some cross bridges on the maya ce in the reach all the way to these potential binding sites on actin, so the force production at this length.

Even though the nervous system is saying go, go, go, go go, the muscle is too long to actually make optimum force.

And then we have the opposite case up top when the muscle is really short.

The act and interferes with the act and in the act and covers some of the potential binding sites.

So if you were to in your mind, construct a graph that had muscle force production versus muscle fiber length.

What do you think it would look like ?

Like that maybe force production length, some just right length where all of the maya sin heads can reach all of the axe and cross bridges maxed out.

But if you're too long forced drops off because some of those cross bridges can't attach.

And if you're too short, the force drops off because some of the cross bridges can't attach.

This is the so called active muscle force length kurt.

That is you turn on the muscle and you change its length and you measure the force and the muscle is activated by the nervous system, so it's thie active muscle force curve.

Now what if the nervous system ?

What if you're sleeping and you're the nervous system isn't turning on your muscles and you wanted to measure the force length curve of a muscle ?

Well, it would look like this, which looks kind of like what we saw for connective tissues.

So now we're just stretching those z lines, a bands and the attendance on either.

And there's a little bit of the connective tissue around the perry museum epa museum all that's connective tissue, so we see it doesn't resist.

Here's force here's length, and it doesn't resist it doesn't resist until you get way past.

It's optimal length and then it starts resisting.

This is passive because it's passive with respect to the nervous system, the nervous system is not activating the muscle by all those mechanisms were so glad we don't have to pay attention to in this course.

So if you put it together, here's the active curve.

Here's the passive curve and so, ah, if you tried to stretch a fully activated muscle, it would follow this green line because it's going to add up nothing active and the passive.

So what's important in this course, which of these curves is important the red one, the green one or that aqua colored one, the red one.

That's the important one.

But i'm showing you these other curves just so you have a little bit of an appreciation what muscles were doing ?

Oh, we already answered that okay.

Oh, we have to do a little bit of mental heavy lifting here.

So everything i've shown you so far is taking a muscle fiber out or out of the body and attaching it into a machine where electrodes stimulates it and a machine stretches it kind of fundamentals.

But what about us ?

What happens to the muscles in our body ?

Uh, how does a muscle length change ?

We'll remember muscles attach to bone to bone ?

So how long a particular muscle fiber is depends on what the joint is doing right.

Because the muscles are attached to bone, so we need to figure out does a muscle get longer, or does it get shorter when our joints move ?

And the answer to this question is, it depends.

It depends on which muscle in which joint motion so we're going to start thinking through this with a muscle that might be like your biceps right.

Here's the elbow joint here's the wrist there's the shoulder we're looking at a muscle on the anterior side of the joint like my biceps.

So what happens to the length of this elbow flex ?

Er, when i flex my elbow or this this anterior muscle when i flex my elbow, do we think it's getting longer or shorter ?

When i this anterior muscle.

Does it get shorter or longer ?

When i do this movement ?

Given that picture, if i move my forearm towards my upper arm is that muscle getting longer shorter shorter.

Okay, so if i draw a graph here's elbow flexion in this direction i know the muscles shortening so it's moving.

That away on this graph is if you set this particular muscle at a certain length, what is happening to it in terms of its force production, so the rest of the curve is just missing here, but it's still that bell shaped curve.

Now if that same muscle.

If i extend that joint this anterior, muscles going get longer, so it's moving the other direction on this force.

Like carrie, all of that seems kind of complicated, but what i want you to take away from that is that we can't answer the question of how do how does muscle length change as joint ankle changes ?

Except to say it will because it's attached to the bones that are moving.

And then we'll which muscle are you talking about and which direction of motion are you talking about.

This is the same muscle, but whether it gets longer a shorter depends on whether the elbow is flexing for extending.

So we're going to be working with that concept.

Ah, lot going forward.

Okay.

I am going teo just introduce one more idea and then we will be done for the day.

So what do we see ?

Here ?

We have seen different muscle architectures.

So what is shown ?

Here are muscle fast icka lt's basically and how they are arranged with respect to the tendons that they attached to bone.

They can be, uh, parallel going into end, they khun b fan shaped they could be like a trappist oi that could be like a feather and so each of these different muscle designs has a name.

So let's look at some of those here longitude.

No, this is the parallel one from one attachment to the other fuse a form is maybe how you have drawn muscles in cartoons is just slightly.

Yeah, the fibers bow out and but but they come together at either end.

So i'm going teo read something here i found i didn't know that a journal existed but i was just walking in a library and i saw journal of muscle foods and i stopped and i pulled it off the shelf and sat down and put through it.

And i found this journal of muscle foods so this is thie effect of epitome zeal connective tissue.

So we know what that is.

That's around fassa cols on factors related to tenderness of beef semi tena.

No.

Sis so sami toe semi tena noses is one of your hamstring muscles, so this was an investigation into why.

How can we make how hamstring muscles more tender and therefore have a better market value think and somehow it's related to this epa museum ?

Previous investigations have revealed consistently unacceptable levels of toughness in beef semi tendon.

Oh, cece i of round it is possible that the fuse of form architecture of the semi tena noses permits moisture loss through cooking as thie epitome zeal connective tissue shrinks, so it's going to squeeze the juice out.

This investigation of the effects of the presence or absence of the epa museum demonstrated significantly greater sheer values in samples with an intact external connective tissue layer.

Why does that matter what is sharing sharing is what you do with your knife when you're cutting through mate ?

So we want lo share values, we don't want resistance to our knife.

We wanted to be tender, however, the reduction in sheer with epic.

So they they thought what if we just strip off this epa me, zia, you know, maybe maybe it would be more tender than, however, the reduction in sheer the tenderness with epa museum removal was small less than five percent and would not have been sufficient to bring a large proportion of hamstring stakes into the range of acceptable eating quality.

The semi tenant knows this is a typical of skeletal muscle with regards to its by mechanical function and native elastin content.

So in the cow in this muscle besides college and they're also some elastin fibers, and this possible contributor to toughness requires further investigation in order to develop a suitable method for tenderness improvement.

What you could do with your anatomical knowledge working in food food research kitchens.

Okay, so that's it for today ?

Um, let's see yeah, i'll i'll start with these other architectural designs next monday.

And, uh, good luck with the rest of your week.

Enjoy the pretty snow.

I think there's gonna be a lot of it on friday and see you monday.