Okay.

We're gonna start right now, right after class.

Okay, i'm back now.

Good morning, everyone.

If you are watching the olympics or they come up in your facebook feed or wherever it is that you might watch them.

Have you checked out the knees in those mocha lt's skiers ?

The it's intense what those knees have to take.

So some mighty strong ligaments there in the deep knee flexion and powerful forces at the knees.

Also, uh, thie figure skaters seemed to have some problems in the team competition that came first.

There are a lot of false, particularly and just people not performing well.

Well, it turns out that they're having to skate at ten o'clock in the morning, which is just not how they usually skated all.

It's usually in the evening, so it's messing up their training schedules in their sleep schedules.

So, anyway, it just reminded me a little bit of what it's like to be in this room at eight thirty in the morning.

People are maybe not quite ready for the day, so that being said, let's move on and finish up muscle tissue so we can start learning about some actual muscles.

And we left off last time talking about designs of muscles.

How the muscle fibers and fast icka ls approach the tendon, the ark, so called muscle architecture and we left off talking about how the fuse of form shape of beef semi tendon.

Oh, cece might be related to its tenderness, but and so when i went out for dinner on saturday night, i gotta stake.

It just reminded me about eating beef.

Okay, so anyway, could be hard to keep this train on the track today, apparently, but we've got quadrilateral here parallel, but in the shape of ah.

Quadrilateral structure, fan shaped or triangular.

Anybody might recognize this is the grand pectoral isthe major muscle.

No, then shaved broad attachment on one dan narrow attachment on the other end.

All righty.

So let's talk about the particular design feature when fassa coll's approach the tendon at an angle, we call those that the angle the ppa nation angle.

We measure it from the orientation of the fibers with respect to the tendon, a nation like a feather and so muscles can be described as unit.

Penn ate pineda on just wider bipin.

Eight.

Here's a central tendon, and so there's an angle on on both sides or multi penny.

So in this particular muscle, which you might recognize as your deltoid muscle, there are lots of tendons inside this muscle.

And i mean fibers are approaching all of those tendons at different angles, multiple angles, multiple tenants.

Yeah, oh, i can.

I wonder how long you had to wait for me to see your hand over here.

Got a bit ?

Oh, yeah.

I'm out there now.

Okay.

Thank you.

So that is the multi penn ate muscle complex design.

So different designs.

What for ?

Just a job for you to do in movement.

Science to thirty two records resigns.

Or are these designs associated with a function ?

So here is an example of two mussels with about the same volume of muscle tissue.

So my question for you is which of these muscles makes more force ?

We have ah, longitudinal design here and a unique pineda design over here.

So, what is your boat ?

Click on the teeny tiny muscle that you think i'll show you these designs again.

Which one of them do you think is stronger ?

Same amount of muscle tissue.

The short fibers at an angle or the long fibers.

Parallel to the line of pull of the muscles.

Oh, i know why this is so small.

All right, let's see what you have decided.

Basically, it's ah, i don't know, type of answer.

So that's fair at this point because we haven't talked about how design influence his force production.

So let's go find out why this design with the short vipers at an angle, might produce more force.

So we have to go back to understanding how forces made in a muscle.

And what you see here are many, many sark amir's in siri's.

And here you see sark, amir's in parallel schematically.

So if the force produced bye, the circum ears on the left there.

If you with those two arrows, this force is the same everywhere here.

So here we have twice the force because they're in parallel.

So we have more cross bridges across the muscle than in siri's.

So it turns out that when you have more vipers parallel to each other rather than in siri's, the muscle can make more force.

Now, what's an easy way to remember this when you think of what your arm looks like before a strength training enough on it, somebody who has bigger muscles we think of is having a stronger pervade.

That's because bigger muscles, arm or muscle fibers in siri's more myo filaments.

I'm sorry i just said that run in parallel so this is how we assess how many my assassin bit mile filaments are interacting with those actin mile filaments in making force.

Because cross bridges make the force, we measure b cross sectional area hair alone to the tent in there.

Perpendicular to the tendon they're attached to.

So if you see all of these fibers, the cross section measured perpendicular to the fibers is a much smaller cross section.

Then the cross section over here on be measured perpendicular to the fibers.

So there are actually mohr fibers pulling in parallel there more mild filaments in this cross sectional area with thie no open eight design on the right.

So we call that particular cross sectional area the physiological cross sectional area.

So you have to measure how many sark amir's are in parallel by measuring perpendicular to the line of polar those sark amir's.

So then why would you ever have a parallel designed muscle ?

Is there any advantage to having, in this case, long fibers in parallel, as opposed to short fibers at an angle ?

No.

What ?

We're going to see that in a moment.

But here i've just said in words in printed words, but what i've been saying out loud.

So even though the's muscles have the same thickness or girth.

If you measure the cross sectional area in the physiologically meaningful way, which is perpendicular to the fibers, the muscle on the right can produce more force.

So therefore it's stronger.

It has mohr cross bridges pulling in parallel.

Okay, so here's what it looks like in terms of the mechanical properties where we have force on the y axis, length on the x axis.

And remember, we talked about the active force length curve of muscle, so that's what we're looking at here.

So a muscle with a larger cross sectional area can produce more force.

This is the mechanical consequence, those two designs that we just looked at.

So here are two muscles that make the same amount of force.

But they seem to have a different spread in the joint angles over which they can make that force, in other words, over a range of muscle lengths.

So one of the's muscles appears to be able to make force over a broader range of muscle lengths, which trance lates to a broader range of joint.

What is the design characteristic that's different between these two muscles ?

That's going to account for how this they're mechanical properties.

Look on this graph, and the answer to that is length.

So muscles with longer fibers.

Here's the advantage to having longer muscle fibers as i move a joint through a certain range of muscle.

Certain range of motion, a muscle that's attached to the bones that are moving at that joint there.

Longer fibers, they're getting stretched relatively less.

Therefore, they can stay up near the top of their force length curve over more joint angles.

So we get a broader force length curve in muscles with longer vipers.

So muscle beach is goingto have longer fibers than muscle so let me explain this figure to you.

Here you have a muscle on the left.

Ay, that has force arkham ears in siri's, of course, is this fiction ?

Because sark amir's air much, much shorter than what it appears here.

The muscle shown on the right is half the length.

In this case, it has two schematic sarka murders in it.

So the difference here is the actual length of these arrows.

So a muscle that has mohr circum ears can actually shorten mawr in terms of millimeters.

Then can a muscle fiber that is shorter a muscle consort to about fifty percent of its muscle fiber length sofia fibers that are a meter long as opposed to ten centimetres long ?

That's going to make a huge difference in terms of literally how many centimeters those two different muscles, khun short and that's happening.

Muscles are changing length.

Remember when we moved joint angles, yes, that's correct.

Thank you for putting that.

Wouldn't that have been nice ?

If i had changed the labels, they would be consistent.

These are not pictures of the muscles that we saw in the previous one.

Thank you so much for bringing that up.

The a's and b's here are arbitrary in these slides.

Very important.

Thank you.

So now a and b will mean something.

Here is muscle a and here's muscle b.

And here our force length curves, one of which is associate with a and one of which is associated with b.

Can you sort this out now and be does mean something ?

Which curve belongs to muscle a.

Okay.

And you have made your choices and you are convinced muscle a is lower.

Right ?

But let's figure out why the correct answer is upper left muscle upper left.

Oh, really ?

Really ?

Okay, you're correct.

So apparently i i'm struggling with aids and bees here, going from one slide to the next.

So which curve belongs to muscle ?

A what ?

A wee before we even get to the curves.

Let's look at the design over here.

Which one of these has a bigger cross sectional area ?

Be bigger physiological cross sectional area, so we know that it's got to be this this curve.

The upper left curve must be must be just based on physiological cross sectional area.

But we also know we see different these five.

These muscles must have different fibre link because the the spread of that force length curve is different.

So we would expect this muscle which we've just identified as b to have shorter fibers because it force length curve is narrower with respect to joint angles, let's go back up here and check.

Do we think muscle b has shorter fibers ?

It should.

Yeah, so both of our criteria for upper.

For this tall curve, the tall curve belongs to muscle b, okay ?

Good job muscle a wait, wait, wait.

Did i get this wrong ?

Apparently, i'm the one who can't wake up this morning.

Let's sort this out.

Muscle curve belongs to muscle a belongs to lower, right ?

Yes.

So you're you're correct here.

Good work.

Are you confused ?

I've got yes and nos.

The majority are correct in this answer here, muscle a has long fibers and less cross sectional area than muscle b.

So this lower curve belongs to muscle a, which is what you chose in the answer here.

The majority.

So good work now are we on board now ?

We're well there.

Okay.

Yeah.

Yeah, yes.

So the muscle fibers themselves are sarka mears in siri's inn.

In all of these muscles end to end.

That's what makes how long a muscle fiber is is how many sark amir's it has in siri's in parallel is how many are stacked next to each other.

How many parallel fibers are there in the direction that is important, which is that we measure perpendicular to the fibers.

A little bit slippery.

The notion, but it sounds like you are are getting it.

So what does this translate to ?

All of our muscles have different designs.

So these are muscles, the names of which you will learn next week.

The's air muscles and on the post cheerier and anterior aspect of the trunk.

And we're looking at their physiological cross sectional area versus fibre link.

So some of the muscles have quite long fibers thirty centimeters and some are very short, five centimeters.

But here's one that has short fibers and is very safe.

And here's some short firebird ones that are thinner.

Okay, so there's a lot of variability and muscle design.

So an important aspect of muslim, which you'll spend quite a bit of time with r where do the muscles attach and we can talk about muscle attachments on phone, but we designate the two ends of the muscles differently.

We call the attachment on when one end of the muscle of bone, its origin and the other attachment on the other end of the muscle, it's insertion.

Mostly, this will make sense because usually the insertion is distal in the trunk.

It can be hard to sort out origin insertions sometimes, but one convenient way.

Two.

Think about that is what a muscle is pulling, which bone is going to move.

Which so and we would call that the or the insertion.

So this particular muscle has an origin on the core, a coid process and an insertion on the humerus.

So when the muscle contracts, it's going to be pulling with equal force on both ends.

He's going to try to pull both bones together.

And if we think about that in terms of a force vector, then we can talk about the line of pole of the muscle.

It's that attach is thie origin to this insertion, so we call it fictitious line drawn between the origin insertion, the line of pole of the muscle.

So in this case, let's say this is the elbow.

This is a forearm bone.

That's the humerus.

And there is the muscle line of pull.

I have put the arrow pulling this way from insertion to origin.

Sometimes there's a broad attachment, like in this case, and so the line of pole is the middle of the origin to the middle of the insertion.

Now, why mess around with an idea like line of poll ?

Well, that's important.

When we try to figure out how much torque muscle produces, because we've spent all this time talking about muscle tissue and how muscle tissue produces force.

But the job of muscles is really to move the bones, and often the bones move in a rotational and type of motion.

So the force that is important when you're trying to do a rotation is called tor really so muscle force produces a torque on the bones and it and in terms of strength.

And when we're moving, what's important is the amount of torque a muscle can make.

So force is applied when the muscle is activated by the nervous ishan nervous system on the bones, and then the functional attributes is the amount of torque that that muscle force produces.

So hello, physics.

What do we know about torque ?

We know that it is forced times a moment.

Arm right ?

That's how we know how big a torque is, so we measure the moment arm of a particular muscle from it is the joint center two.

Hey, it's the perpendicular to the line of poll of that muscle.

So we could have a muscle that has the same force.

But if we move the moment arm farther away from the joint, it's going to produce more torque, be more effective, have more mechanical advantage.

Well, how do you move ?

How do you change the moment our love of a muscle ?

Well, surgeons can do it sometimes in plastic surgeries.

After a trauma or tumor resection, surgeons have to reattach muscles or intendant transfer procedures.

Surgeons actually have to think about this concept when they choose a reattachment site for the tendon of a muscle.

So in most of our daily lives it's we can consider that the muscles have a fixed attachment point and the moment arm that goes along with it.

So you do need to remember thiss definition of what a moment arm is.

It's this perpendicular distance from the joint center to the muscle line of pole so our movements, let's say we're considering movements of the elbow in the flexion and extension direction.

So which muscles are going to make torque in the direction of flexion and which muscles make torque in the direction of extension ?

So this is something that's a little bit different in this biological system.

Then, if you were designing a robot to do a task speaking robots, i guess i spent time watching the olympics.

Did you see those drones ?

That drone light display ?

That was really cool.

What ?

Okay, that was a tangent back to business.

So muscles are going to try to shortened.

When the nervous system activates them, they're going to try to pull their insertion towards their origin.

So in the case of this particular red muscle attached in the way is shown here.

The only thing that muscle can ever do is make flex artur, because it's always its force is always going to be in the direction shown, and it is always going to try to flex that joint.

That muscle force will always be creating flex our muscle torque so we can't put mussels in reverse.

Where's the extensive muscle torque going to come from.

Well, we have to add another muscle into the system, and in fact, the extensive muscles are on the other side of the joint.

Muscles are one way force generators, so if you want to have torque in the other direction, you have to add a whole other set of muscles on the other side of the joint.

Flex serves extensive sir's biceps triceps.

You know, from the gym.

Those do very different jobs, and you have to do different movements to strengthen them.

So i've asked a question.

Here's a blue muscle and when the blue muscle shortened is going to pull, imagine pulling the electra non process towards the post cheerier side of the humerus and that causes an extensive muscle tor.

The function of a muscle.

That is, if a muscle is categorizes affleck, sir, or if it is categorized as an extensive depends on this talk business.

Which way does it try to move the joint ?

Which direction does it generate ?

Torque in.

So, in this case of the l bow, wrist and shoulder up high muscles anterior to the elbow joint are your flex.

And mussels post ear, ear to your elbow joint are your extensive unique if we had a little torque motor.

We just haven't run in one direction or the other, but the body isn't designed like that.

Muscles on opposite sides of the joint have opposite functions, so this joint access is piercing the screen here.

So we have muscles and tear post here to the joint, and we categorized all of the muscles that might be anterior as flex er's and all of the muscles post cheerier as extensive, so that neat means bottom line.

We need a pair of muscles to control every degree of freedom, so if you think about the shoulder, they're three degrees of freedom.

There at the elbow, where there's one degree of freedom, there's one motion, one axis of rotation at the elbow.

We need a pair of muscles, flexes and extensive.

So speaking of the shoulder, how many muscles men at men do we need to control movements at the glen ?

Oh, humor rolled joint okay.

And hopefully you have chosen six.

Thank you.

There are three degrees of freedom at the shoulder.

Flexion extension is one frontal plane, aban abduction, transfers, plane medial and lateral rotation.

So we're going to need a muscle for each of those directions of motion.

Okay.

Here's an idea that is can be very challenging, and i'm going to talk about it, but we'll talk about it again many times as we move through the muscle section.

When muscles generate force wall shortening.

We call this concentric muscle action so the muscle is trying to shorten.

Here it is trying to flex the elbow, and the elbow is actually flexing.

That's called con centric.

Everything lines up shortening muscle.

Well, it's active.

Is there any other way for a muscle to behave ?

Yes, a muscle can.

Well.

This is what happens when i pick up my coffee cup, frank.

But if i were to try to pick up so that curling stone, i don't know how much those weigh.

Does anyone know how much a curling stone weighs any canadians in the room ?

I don't know, but they look heavy.

I'm not sure i could pick it up so easily.

So why am i saying that ?

I'm saying that because this cup of coffee doesn't weigh very much.

In other words, gravity is not resisting me, resisting me, flexing my elbow very much.

My biceps can handle this very easily.

But if i were to pick up a curling stone or if someone were to hand me one, maybe that curling stone is so heavy that even though i'm trying with all my might and contracting my biceps, my elbow might end up extending because i'm not strong enough toe lift it.

So even though my muscle is contracting and generating muscle force in the flexion direction, external forces might be acting on my limb about that air so big that they're bigger than the muscle forces that my joint actually moves in the other direction.

That's what i'm trying to say here.

In this case, this muscle is trying desperately to add duct this individual's arm.

What if this person is pressing up with more force ?

The joint might end up moving into the abduction direction and that's what shown here, where the muscle force is less than the resistance force applied by the hand, and the arms starts actually moving in the other direction.

So the muscles contract.

But it's getting longer while it's contracting, because the joint is moving in the opposite direction, and that is called e centric action.

So in the case of me and the curling stone, my biceps would be trying teo flex my elbow with this flexor tor.

But if the external forces acting on my limit the same time gravity pulling on that curling stone, i might actually end up within elbow extension even while i was trying to flex.

And that's called an e centric action.

So the muscle is generating force while it is lengthening.

So that's why i'm using the word action rather than contraction.

Because contractions sounds like something shortens, action says the muscle is activated by the nervous system, and whether it lengthens air shortens depends on what else is going on in the world.

Hello.

Arnold schwarznegger from when i was a graduate student.

S so what do we call that ?

He's definitely contracting his muscles to make them look bigger.

But he's not moving.

So this is a case where muscles are generating force but the biceps and triceps er, generating the same amount force.

And so his elbow joint doesn't move it all.

So these air muscles active without any lengthening and we call that isometric action same link.

So we have concept rick action.

When a muscle is active, making force and shortening e centric action when a muscle is making force, it's activated by the nervous is to making force but lengthening while it's making the force and then isometric when it's not changing length at all.

Muscle can have more than one function so these muscles.

Or muscles can more than one muscle contributes to a function thes air, the so called adductor muscles.

When they shortened, they're going to pull the hip into a position of abduction.

So there's more than one, and you can see that there's some different fibre links here and some different cross sectional areas so that the muscles air quite, uh, unique in their design.

But they all share this function, so we would call all of these muscles sinner just because their bodies, they're all trying to add duct, they act synergistically when the job is to add up.

So if our job if if our goal of our task is to abduct him, then we would call the add doctors.

Thie agonists.

Think you could think of them as the protagonists in literature ?

Thie antagonise is the group on the other side, the abductors so for trying tto add duck and we're activating our abductors.

Abby doctors are antagonised ce.

They're on the opposite side of the joint.

To control movement.

Because muscle sometimes very often have more than one function, the brain sometimes has to turn on all the whole muscles to get the desired action.

So here's muscle, eh ?

That muscle has to.

When it's activated, it does two things.

It retracts the scapula upward, rotates the scapula muscle b downward, rotates the scapula and retracts it.

So if what i want is powerful retraction, my scapula for whatever the movement calls.

If that's what the movement calls for, i could turn on both of these movements and the upward rotation and muscle a would neutralize the downward rotation and muscle be.

But i'd get a double dose of retraction force by doing this so you can see how smart the brain must be.

It has to choose which muscles based on the mechanics of each muscle and the there's a redundancy in terms the amount of muscles available.

So our brains have to know a lot about our physical plant in order to control movies.

Okay, that's it for muscle.

Just general abstract concept about muscle.

And i'd like to actually start and talk about the job, the muscles of mastication.

So i'd like to go a little bit longer today and move into oh, i know what this is.

Move into head, neck and trunk muscles.

You ready to dive in and learn some specific muscles ?

Okay, so i will say that the muscles that you're about to learn are the hardest ones in the whole body, and that's because you're not as aware of them.

You can see your limbs more easily, but you can't really see what's going on on the post year side of your trump.

And so, uh, they're a little bit more fictional.

You might be less acquainted with them moving in.

So it's a good news.

Bad news.

Bad news is thies air hard.

Good news is, the rest of them are much easier.

Okay.

Oh, and here's a hint as to why they might be hard.

Look at all these words.

Transfer so spin alleys must yikes! That will make sense next week.

Today we're just going to talk about the muscles controlling the job.

I want to give you a heads up on something, as you have seen from the first exam.

They don't give you pictures the bones and say, what's this landmark ?

I won't do the same thing with muscles.

What's this muscle ?

Except in cross sections ?

Yeah.

So some of the cross sections that i show you in lecture are candidates for exam questions.

So here is an introduction to what jobs need to be done by muscles controlling the temporal mandibular joint.

We've gotta elevate and depress.

We've gotta protract and retract the temporal mandibular joint now.

Okay, here is something i learned recently about this drawing in a divinci notebook.

So divinci dissected to figure out how the body works.

But he did many other things, as you well know.

He happened to be engaged in an architecture, er, task.

He was designing a building, and then, hey started working on some anatomy.

And so this view.

So he he came up with the idea of showing the architecture and the different different planes of showing a building.

So when it came across the skull, he did that for the first time.

So you can thank him for what's commonplace, commonplace to us about looking at anatomy in thes planes.

But he was the first person to put that together.

Isn't that interesting ?

Okay, moving on.

Where do you think muscle that elevates the jaw would insert.

So you have to remember what that insertion means and what jaw elevation movement is okay.

Anybody who clicked anywhere on the mandible winds in jaw elevation.

The mandible is moving the insertion and of a muscle is typically on the bone that's going to be moving, so the insertions has to be on the mandible.

This is correct.

Also on the mandible anywhere.

Okay.

Muscles that elevate the jaw.

Insert on the mandible.

There it is in print.

So here are some of the muscles they were going to learn the names they're all attaching too.

The mandible.

So.

What would you say is the origin ?

And what would you say ?

Is the insertion up this muscle ?

You're still work.

I learned something very interesting about this muscle.

By reading someone's article review, this muscle is called the massacre.

You could see it right here.

Clench your teeth.

And run back and forth can feel that massacre muscles this one right here.

So in someone's article review, they were looking at bo talks in jeff injections a neuro toxin and they were looking at the effect on force is applied by this muscle on bone density in the mandible.

But apparently, sometimes bo talks.

Injections in this muscle are used for cosmetic reasons.

And i'm trying to figure out what that this was not the point of the article, but it made me think, why ?

Why ?

Why would this be cosmetic and maybe just makes you look like you have higher cheek bones of this muscle atrophies a little bit that anyway.

That was interesting to me.

So what have you said about this ?

Uh, temporal.

We don't know whether that's a origin and insertion.

Oh, zygomatic arch to mandibular ramos origin insertion.

Oh, yeah.

So we've got.

So why saves ?

Why ask you this question is because of two reasons.

One you've sorted out, which end is the origin and which end to see insertion.

But also you can see that there's a difference in precision and how you khun describe an origin and an insertion.

Is it just the mandible, or is it the angle of the mandible ?

As if the angle in the ramos of the mandible is this ?

I mean zygomatic the temporal portion of the zygomatic bone and the zygomatic portion of the temporal bone ?

Or is it the zygomatic arch ?

So, as you reed and think about this, there's a different levels of detail.

And so what i want to say to you now is that the level of detail i put on the slides is the level of detail i want you to know.

Sometimes it will be more simplified than what you might read in the book for this class or in netters anatomy or when you google it online.

So just to come to a commonplace, i will use what i put on this slide as the level of detail that we're going to talk about these origins and insertions.

And so here's the massacre muscle.

And what if i said here who ramos and angle of the mandible on the lateral surface.

So apparently that's important to me, that level of detail and, um, what it's going to do is paul the angle of the mandible upwards towards thes zygomatic arch that's going to close the mouth or elevate the job.

Use the name o so what do you need to know about massacre ?

Everything on the slide you need to know its origin and insertion and its function.

So for all of the muscles that we learned that job, origin and assertion and function flashcards.

Quiz lit.

Are your friends okay ?

Use the name of the bony attachment of origin to name this muscle.

You're seeing it here for the first time.

What would you name it based on where it attach ?

Is some muscles air named conveniently in this way.

Man.

Let's see what you've got.

We've got here temporarily.

Yes.

Temporal zygomatic.

Speen oid muscles.

Okay.

Feen oid muscle.

Oh, yeah.

Somebody remembers where that's finite bone wass, and we've got some frontal.

Give me frontal bone.

Okay, so the actual name is the temporal ous, and here it is.

Large attachment on the bridal, but it's covering them.

Temporal bone, mostly.

But look what i've said.

Lateral skull.

So i don't need you to know.

In this case, all those bones that attach is on lateral skulls.

Good enough.

What is important is the particular insertion site.

Corrine.

Oid process of the mandible that great big corn oid process is there for temporal is to grab onto it.

And the hall, the mandible up.

So the mouth closes with a lot of force.

This muscle elevates and also retracts.

Look at these fibers.

Post eary early in temporal ous there, almost at a ninety degree angle from these anterior fibers.

So these fibers are going to pull mandible in the retraction direction, so it has two functions.

But it's all this goop on the ramos of the mandible here.

This's the peratis gland.

None of you in here, i trust, have had mumps because you got shots for that.

I had mumps before there were shots for that.

So this swells up.

The peralta grant gland swells up big, so mumps are have to do with this clown right here.

Okay, so here comes some work.

Medial and lateral.

Terra goit muscles, pius, silent terra coitus.

A spelling challenge.

So what are we looking at here ?

The massive chur has been reflected, cut and reflected back to expose the lateral surface of the angle of the mandible.

There's been a little section, a little cut out of the mandible, so we can look deep.

And here are the tear agoit's deep to the zygomatic arch which has been removed and deep to the mandible.

That's where we find these little territory.

By the way, we've got a nice picture of the temporal bone again here.

This was covered up completely by temporal alice.

So this is the view of the terra guides.

This is standing on your tongue and looking anterior early bye.

So you can see where these tear egoyan's attach the medial one is named medial because it attach is on this side of this feen oid bone.

The wing of this annoyed the medial side, and the lateral attach is on the lateral side of that bone.

So that's where their names come from, and there's no way you could even begin to understand this without looking at the picture this way.

So we're going to focus on the insertions of these muscles to try to tell them apart rather than this detail the origins.

So it looks like the lateral terek oid is attaching near the mandibular con dial, and the medial terek oid is attaching near the angle of the ramos.

But on the medial side, isn't that convenient for remembering its name so the medial terek oid attach is on this feen oid bone.

The details you saw in the previous picture and we've seen another muscle that attach is on the ramos and angle of the mandible, the massive attached on the lateral side of the bone.

The medial terracotta attach is in the same place but on the medial side of the bone.

And this muscle holds up on the mandible and closes the mouth or elevate.

So that's medial tear a coid.

Here's lateral terra goi and the zygomatic arch has to be removed so we can see the details.

These muscles.

So what's the function of the lateral territory ?

Do you think ?

What's its job ?

Hey, let's see what you got.

Hey! You are correct.

Good for, you know that's lateral terror.

Good.

Isn't that pretty ?

So pro traction ?

Um, we're chewing.

We're we're moving our teeth around a lot.

Two to crush the food.

And this is part of that.

Back up here.

Let's look again at the temporal mandibular joint so we can see that meniscus inside that synovial joy.

A nice view of that.

Okay, here's lateral terra goi formally met.

Attach is has origin.

Also on this feen oid bone on the lateral side of it of that plate and attach is for its insertion on the neck of the man, very near to contact.

What are the two muscles that search on the angle of the mandible ?

Here's one and here's one.

And you can just tell me what those are.

Massive er medial tear egoi.

Lateral side.

Medial side on the same place on the boat.

So can you find lateral terror ?

Good for me.

And this picture, please.

How about if we well, good job.

Those of you in the room.

Okay.

And where is a muscle that elevates and retracts the mandible ?

So before you answer this question, notice that you have two ways to approach it.

You can have memorized a muscle, pulled that muscle out of your mind out of your memory banks.

Or you could look at the picture and figure it out.

Look for the design and attachments of the muscle that would produce retraction and elevation.

Okay, well, we've got a little bit of a scattered field here.

But it's temporary.

Alice that has that function.

Thes fibers hole up on the core.

Annoyed process.

These fibres pull post eerily on the corn.

I'd process so we have elevation and retractions.

So this is the job so far.

Can you name the muscles that might protract ?

Can you name the muscles that might retract ?

Can you name the muscles that elevate ?

So as you're learning the muscles, you need to learn the individual muscles.

But you also need to learn what functional group they belong to.

So that could be two sets of flash cards.

No one free individual muscles, each individual mussel.

Another four functional groups notice that we don't have depression here.

The muscles that depressed that we're just gonna like gravity depress the job for us so far in two thirty.

Because some of the muscles that depress the job we're not going to go into the details of the facial muscles or muscles involved in swallowing and some of those air involved in depressing the jaw.

So we just aren't gonna go to that level of detail in here.

But if you're thinking about speech therapy, of course that will become particularly relevant to you or otolaryngology, for example, okay, so here is what i'm going to suggest that you do draw, draw, draw they you can see that we're coming up against a mountain of muscles.

Tto learn so and the idea is to get the picture in your head of thes muscles and the picture in your body.

So is whenever possible, feel your body.

If you say if you feel you're massacre and trace its attachment and say the name out loud, that's away to study.

Drawing the massive gerard a picture of a skull in the draught to know its.

I provided some drawings of the bones so you could just print those out and draw the muscles.

And then there's just rehearsal, rehearsal, rehearsal, rehearsal those flash cards in your pocket all times for the next two months.

We will help you a lot.

So i am going to stop here because we'll start with neck muscles next time.

And this is just a really good stopping point in between john muscles and the trunk muscles.

If you have questions, i didn't ask the question of the day, did i ?

Oh, let's so let's get that done.

Where did i put it ?

I don't know where i put it.

No cool.

What ?

Thirty eight slide thirty eight.

Skip it.

I thought i put it in right before.

Oh, isn't this a boring waste of time ?

Where did i put it ?

No, it wouldn't be that one.

Uh, hang on a second.

Let me do this.

So you could get credit for having been here today, please.

Thirty eight.

But why doesn't that match mine ?

Thirty eight is not it ?

Okay, so i'm sorry.

I'll quickly quickly do this.

Yeah.

I wonder if you'd let me at it while we're still recording problem.

I'll make it into thirty eight addicts.

Okay, that'll be thirty nine.

Come on, come on, come on.

Haste makes waste here.

You.

Wow.

Thank you for your patience.

There we go.

There it is.

All right.

Who has a number they want to say ?

Somebody do the work ?

What did i see ?

Five.

A five, okay.

Now we're done type in five and we'll be on our way.

I only have eleven there.

More of you here than eleven.

What's up ?

Oh.

Oh, are we really going to have to do a piece of paper ?

Uh, guess we have to do a piece of paper because it's oh, no.

Yeah, it's not working.

So if you could give me pieces, little pieces of paper, that way i can give you your five points.

Five.

Sorry about this screwup.

Enjoy an extra fifteen minutes or so in your morning and i can answer questions for you.