Good morning everyone.

We are finishing up our discussion of head, neck and trunk muscles and then we're going to do some review in preparation for the exam, so let's get started here.

No we got through all of the muscles last time, so assembling them into functional groups, so we added the muscles that you see dark here.

So we added.

Some extensive is, of course, because we're talking about posterior muscles currently, so they would all be extensive lateral flexor sirs the sub occipital ls that multiple tous, the segmental group and quadrant islam boram, we've added another contra lateral rotate er's the transfer sos by analysis.

Muscle group are all contra lateral rotate er's and the ips lateral rotator sze are the sub occipital muscles.

So here's a question to get us warmed up.

This looks like a slice through the lumbar spine transfer section through a for tea brel lumbar vertebra here how do i know ?

This is a lumbar vertebra get the orientation of thes facet joints.

Exactly so what's that this lumber when they face media lateral.

So let's get busy and find out what these muscles are.

First find anterior and post ear e er to get oriented.

Then think about what superficial what's deep what might be near the vertebra itself.

Monday morning eight.

Forty three and your brains are now officially doing work.

Does anybody want more time ?

Okay, still working.

Are we good now ?

Moving forward.

Before going to the answers.

I am let's just talk through this.

I see a muscle number five that attach is to the trans.

Verse process of this lumbar vertebra if this were in the neck.

What do you think this muscle would be in the cervical spine what muscles attached to the trans verse processes here.

Starts with an s many of our muscles.

Somebody tell me scale leans yes so this is like a scaling muscle, but it's in the lumbar spine this's quite greatest slum boram.

Oriented very similarly to the scaling.

If this were the cervical spine, we might call this a muscle in the pre vertebral group so in the lumbar spine what muscle is positioned like a pre vertebral.

Very, very deep.

It starts with a p s.

This is so us or filet mignon for those of you who go to the child.

Uh already so big post eerie, erm us a lot of cross section director spy name here not separated into one of those muscles.

We just saw named on the previous side, slightest director spine a group um, this looks like three relatively thin muscles in a layer.

This would be the abdominal wall.

The most superficial is thie.

External oblique deep to the external bleak is number three, the internal oblique and then deep to the internal oblique.

The deepest of thes abdominal wall muscles is trans versus abdominal number two so i've got everything labeled for you here.

Are you okay with that get that.

What's this thing ?

This is a kidney.

These air bowels big vessels.

Nice, some nice fat to cushion all of these viscera okay or organs.

Can you find external oblique here ?

And he found it.

I presume here we go.

Mostly let's talk about the people who clicked here.

Is this the anterior or posterior aspect of the body posterior right ?

He's got his skin pulled down.

We conceive this is post dear here we haven't we actually haven't talked about thes superficial muscles yet and why is that if you recall i said the most superficial muscles on the post cheerier aspect of the body actually control the shoulder girdle in the glen of humorous joint so we're going to dissect those away and looked deep to them so we haven't even talked about thes muscles yet in fact this is lettuce mus door side and we'll talk about that after spring break so external oblique fibers run as you expect downwards and forwards or inferior lee and anterior lee in anatomical language par lands.

This little triangle is drawn on here.

And actually, that's a peek.

We can see a little teeny bit of the internal beak here you can kind of see the fibers running in the opposite direction.

Internal oblique deep two extra mobley.

Okay here is the cross section of the neck that you looked at last week.

Here's a cervical vertebra long spine is process the transfer's processes and you can see the skull llinas muscles attaching to the transfers process here like we just saw and now analogous lee two trends quadri, islam, boram so the question is any muscle over here what might it do ?

Anywhere in the box.

What function is shared by any muscle in this box.

In other words, when any muscle on the right side of the spine shortens whether it's an anterior muscle or post cheerier muscle, what might it do and you have selected ?

They're good.

They're right lateral flexors.

These are right muscles on the right side of the body and they're laterally flexing to the right so they're associate with right lateral flexion.

But if we wanted to generalize, we could say that lateral flexors are it's a lateral lateral flexor so let me give you a head for the exam.

Are you listening ?

If you see the word, it's a lateral contra lateral.

Read the word that follows it carefully the word that follows it might be lateral flexion or the word might rotation.

Be sure you read the word following that if you see it's a lateral or contra latal just don't assume we're talking about rotation right be sure to read the words slow down and read the words on the exam.

Okay, so you did very well on that.

What about these muscles ?

What do they ?

Where do we find them ?

This is a box.

It's isolating muscles post eery year.

What do we know about the funk muscles on the post ear ear aspect the spine.

We would expect these muscles to do what and you have for sure selected extension good work.

You know where the muscle is you know what it does if you know what it does you know where it is structure function relationship.

All right here begins the brain twisting teasing the hard question of the day when you do a sit up with a twist to the right right elbow to left me.

Who's doing what and how are they doing.

First of all name the movement.

Once the movement is named, then you can work through this list.

Do you agree with the person sitting next to you ?

Okay, so let's see what you've got.

Don't.

It looks like we have one answer that most people like, but there's quite a bit of suggestion that the other answers might be correct.

So let's let's talk through this the movement when you bring your right elbow to your left knee to sit up here.

Flexing.

But which direction are you rotating towards the left ?

I agree so we have left rotation so which muscles shorten in left rotation.

Are there.

Any muscles are is there such a thing as an ips a lateral rotator ?

Yeah is there such a thing as a contra lateral rotator ?

Yeah, so we're going to be looking for anything concentric up.

There tells us muscles are shortening while they're generating this motion, so the concentric choices, there's only one.

So that's why be is correct.

If you're rotating to the left, then the contra lateral rotator sze.

Will be acting, concentra clea.

Oh, i'm sorry.

This is a twist to the right so a twist to the right oops, he's grabbed the movement room a twist to the right would be the left elbow to the right.

That's the twist to the right is that what i said on the previous slide no.

It's just this one so a twist to the right so unfortunately i mixed up my elbows and knees.

But this is about twisting to the right, so it's left elbow to right knee twist to the right.

So when you're twisting to the right, it's going to be the contra lateral rotate ear's on the left side, right correct because the muscles the contra lateral rotate ear's on the left side are going to rotate the body.

They're going to short when the body rotates to the right.

So we don't even need to look at the east centric one because the east centric ones are going to be lengthening and they're not involved in this task.

Are there any other muscles ?

What about thie right ipsa lateral rotate er's could they be involved in this task ?

If you're rotating to the right, we know the left contra laval rotate er's are going to shorten what about the right ifs a lateral rotator do they shortened during this task ?

Yeah, but is they would be acting concentra clea.

So that's what's wrong with c.

He says they're acting there lengthening during the task, but they're not the shortening.

Okay, so when you twist to the right, two groups of muscles can will shorten during that task.

The ipsa lateral rotator sze on the right those shortened when you rotate in the same direction.

It's a lateral, same direction, right twist, right.

It's a lateral rotator sze and the contra lateral rotator is on the other side.

If you're twisting to the left, it would be the left contra lateral rotate.

Er's that shortened during taft are we together on this confusion ?

We're good.

Correct.

And even though we might wanted to invoke the right ips a letter, it's a lateral rotate.

Er's we didn't because of this word, east said trick that says they're lengthening while they're active.

But we know that in a right rotation the right ifs, a lateral rotator sze would be shortening.

They would be acting, concentra clea, so we were way rejected.

See.

Okay, remember these one of them is labeled wrong which one is labeled wrong or rather labeled correctly.

And a clue yet where these muscles of mastication.

All right here we go.

Good work you're absolutely correct so lateral terra coid it could be the medial tear a goy that's our confusion, but perhaps you remember that the medial tear a coid attach is on this angle of the radio mandible like massacre so lateral terror goy correct.

Why is this not the massacre ?

Where does massive attach what we just said it attached here and this muscle.

Maybe this free end could actually have been cut off of the angle of the mandible kind of a question mark, but let's look at the other attachment of this muscle where does massive her originate where does have its origin ?

Like a matic arch, which is cut away in this picture massacre you don't maciver you can feel like they're touches like the magic art.

So the muscle here is actually kind of the valentine's day muscle.

It does that okay, we're actually it because that it compresses your chief.

We didn't talk about that must little alright, so good job you're on top of the tear agoit's i'm impressed, and it's only monday all right.

So which of the following muscles are ipsa lateral rotator sze just to check here have you started to assemble muscles by functional group of the spine yet ?

Well, we're still working.

That's good.

Oh dear a lot of sneezing there.

Okay, let's see what you have decided.

Some confusion this to me looks like perhaps we haven't sorted this out yet.

So let's talk about this as a deductive process quite rated slum boram and so as major.

If you remember where quadrant islam form is it's right at those trans verse processes so it's not going to have a rotation function at all.

Doesn't have much moment arm there and neither does so as major, there were just so close to the joint access.

There's not much rotation there, so i would put that in the low priority trans far, so sp analysis and sub occipital sze well.

We talked last time about what the rotation function was of the transfer so spine alice and that has to do with the name of the group itself transfer so spine alice connects transfers processes to spy nous processes.

So what it does is shortened the distance between spine is processes and transfers processes.

So just by the name of the muscle when the distance shortens between a spine is process and a transverse process.

Think of moving that rotating that spine isp process towards the transfer process.

So if you're shortening that distance on the left, the spine's going to rotate towards the right.

So the transfer so spine alice muscles our contra lateral rotator sze.

Sternal clyde oh, mass toid an external oblique sternal clyde ome asteroid if you don't remember you just do it here's my right one i'm going to bring my origin insertion closer together i am now looking at my left so therefore my right sternal clyde oh mastoi has rotated my head to the left that's the definition of contra lateral rotation even if you don't remember the function of sternal clyde ome asteroid you khun do the function of sternal clyde ome asteroid and eliminated here so that leaves internal oblique now a short and who knows what's planus does ?

But we know for sure that internal oblique is an ips allow rotator because you memorize that internal bleak.

It's a lateral internal oblique ips lateral both eyes so you could start because you remember the relationship between internal oblique and absalom rotation and guess there not knowing what sub occipital sze d'oh or asuni.

Please explain yous.

That would be a good guess even without knowing what's plainest us.

So there's memorization, and there's also thinking.

What i want you to do is to figure out the function of the transfer, so spine alice when you shorten the distance between a spine isp process and a transfers process on one side of the body.

Which way does that rotate ?

Then you then you don't even need to memorize it because you can just remember that movement you can just do that movement and sort it out.

So what i'm asking you to do is teo.

I'm good man your memorization with an understanding of where the muscles are and where they attach like i said earlier.

If you know where they attached, you can figure out their function.

If you know their function, you can kind of figure out where they are.

It works both ways.

Okay, here's a picture and the question here is name one of the muscles in red.

I'd be good if you name one of them, but the challenge, of course, is to be able to name all of them.

You will not get a question like this on the exam.

We're just practicing here okay, we're still working.

Okay, anybody want more time.

A sternal claddagh.

Mastered.

Okay.

So master master okla vehicular lovett.

Okay, soft again.

There are muscles in the esophagus, but they're beyond the scope of this course.

Okay, so i'm seeing.

Correct answers i'm saying, of course, the majority of people going for the easy one, the muscle that attaches to the sternum to the clavicle into the mastery processes.

Of course, journal clyde um asteroid let's go to the next one that is would be in my mind the next easiest one what muscle in the cervical spine attached his two transfers processes in a rib.

What group does it belong to scale lanes right ?

Anterior media's post area.

Don't don't know because i didn't ask you to memorise which one of the cleanest muscles attached on the first river.

The second room so one of the ska leanna's mom.

And now what is this one ?

What muscle group does this belong to where do i find it ?

Is it not very deep isn't even deeper than the esophagus ?

Yes, so what muscle group does this belong to anterior cervical spying muscle ?

Somebody group.

You can say it you could do it group.

Spit it out somebody help me here yes, thank you very much one of the pre vertebral muscles.

Does it attached to the skull ?

No, so it's the one in the pre vertebral group that does not have the word capitals in it so it would be longest coli.

Can we come up with the names of sea way ?

Logic are way, too.

That one if you know the pre vertebral group because of where it lies its very deep just anti rh to these cervical vertebral bodies you know it's gotta be one of the pre vertebral and then you kick into gear oh, yeah, i remember what those prevert liberals were longest capital longest coli rectus capitals anterior rectus capital latter alice those muscles and the only one in that group that didn't attached to the skull was longest colin.

We've done that okay.

Eccentric action which of these muscles causes depression of the temporal mandibular joint depression is which movement what does e centric action tell you with a muscle beginning longer or shorter with e centric action ?

Okay.

The majority of you are wrong and let me tell you why you were correct that those above three muscles, which are all elevators of the temporal mandibular joint lengthened when the temperament imbula joint.

Depresses.

That's true, they get longer, but the word cause up there if they were to cause depression what they not be pushing downward on the mandible rather than pulling upward.

Muscles.

Don't push the only poll so it's true that they're lengthening, but they are not acting e centric lee.

Who is that confusing ?

Okay, so how would this be true ?

This would be true if i was very frightened person in the dentist chair and i had a sadistic dentist who said open your mouth and i said no, no, no.

So if the dentist grabbed my mandible and pulled downward while i had engaged my elevators, i would be resisting the dentist tryingto over my mouth.

Whoa! This is a bad scenario.

I'm trying to open my mouth or maybe think of this as trying to give your dog a pill that's a little bit happier.

The dog does not want to open its learned what's gonna happen when they taste hamburger and they even though they want a hamburger they don't want the pill so they try to get their jaw closed.

You try to force the dog mouth so the dog is activating massacre temporal sand medial tear a goy close the jaw to elevate it and but you're stronger this's a chihuahua and you can force the.

In other words, there's an external force that is actually opening the mouth depressing.

The jaw and the muscles are resisting it.

In that case, the muscles would acting eccentrically because they will be trying to close the jaw and lengthening at the same time.

We like the chihuahuas and the pill scenario better don't we've been better than this sadistic dentist okay.

We're going to talk more about this later, but just a heads up that concentrate and e centric do refer to a length change.

That's always true, but really how the joint moves depends on all of the forces acting on the joint, and the case is so far on ly muscles have been active.

But as we move on in the course, we're going to let other forces active like the chihuahuas owner trying to open the job opposing external forces that are even stronger than muscle forces that actually dominate the movement.

So the key thing here was cause meaning no other forces are acting on that joint except the muscle forces.

Knee and the nervous name a muscle that belongs to the sub occipital group.

Can you do this and a clue what a sub occipital muscle might be first think where are the sub occipital muscles ?

Are they anti rh post ?

Here are they ?

Deep superficial ?

Where are they ?

And once you think about where they are, it might trigger some knowledge that you have about the name of a muscle that might belong to that.

What is one word that you might expect to find in the name of a muscle in the sub occipital group.

Two words i can think of two words based on where my putting my hand.

Okay, let's see what you have decided.

A neck muscle, huh ?

That's true would it be an anterior or posterior neck muscle ?

I think i heard post eerie out there and because of where i put my hand here ?

What other word besides post eerie er might i expect teo see in the name of a sub occipital muscle ?

My hand is very close to my skull.

Is it not so perhaps that were capita ce might show.

Rectus capitals major good, except we need a post airier in there.

A major minor again.

Excellent, we need a post cheerier there we go biceps.

Nope.

That's the name of a muscle, but it's not in the sub occipital group.

Okay, so try two.

Let the anatomical language which you are working so hard to master help you sub occipital tells you so much if you saw a listing of muscle names if you didn't have to come up with it on your own.

If you just saw a listing of muscle names just by sub occipital, you would be able to get ninety five percent of the way towards an answer.

Number of the day.

Could we do the obvious obvious february nineteenth how about nineteen ?

And there we go look at those okay.

Okay, we're gonna try again on this spine rotation clearly i want youto have this sorted out before wednesday.

This is question.

Number two which of the following statements is true about muscles that act to rotate the spine to the right rotating the spine to the road right rotating the spine to the right.

We like this kind of a rotation question better than the first one.

I should've warmed you up with this one.

All right and you have chosen the correct answer here and what is the the muscles on the right ?

What would we refer to those at right.

It's a lateral rotator is found on the right side of the body and mussels on the left.

Those would be the contra labral rotate er's found on the left side of the body.

No, this makes much more sense than that horrible question.

I asked early on okay, good.

We're happier now much much happier.

Now this is the concept.

The higher level understanding of this rotation business, i can feel.

The relief out there.

Now it's making sense.

So i claim that if you looked at the anatomical language, you might be able to sort this out trans verso spine alice group i know this is hard.

I went looking to make this a devilish question so that we could talk about it and help sort it out so you're not trying to sort it out on wednesday for the first time we're sorting it out on monday for the first time.

Why do all that tough and anatomy ?

Words start with an s we had to deal with all those sin con tro see sympathies in death.

Most these and now we have all of these s words.

It's the curse of the letter s okay.

It looks like a major decision just for the heck of it.

Let's see now we have we're not quite there.

All right so spine alice semi span alice, which one of those belong to the erector spine a group.

Remember rector spine a had a a leo cost a lawless.

It had a long just amiss and it had a spine alice.

So we reject answer a because we know spine alice is an erector spine a muscle hey, next spleen ius.

Oh, maybe you have a vague memory of talking about spleen ius early on, it wasn't part of anybody's group.

It was its own group.

In fact, the spleen easiest muscles, capitals and cervical were in the same group as the erector spine a they were in the intermediate group.

Those cleaning of muscles and erector spine, eh ?

We talked about those, and then we went deep to the deepest layer to talk about all the rest of the muscles.

Maybe remember that so we reject splain ius because we talked about that as its own muscles.

So that leaves this is one we remember absolutely nothing about semi span alice capita ce.

But at least it does not the other two so that would be one way teo approach.

This question deduction based on what you might know another way to approach it is to have memorized, and i do recommend this.

What are the three muscles look at that ?

She holds up four fingers and says three the three muscles that belonged to the transfer.

So sp analysis group and can we name those we had.

It's the semi span alice muscles capita service.

But the semi span alice muscle's name me another one, please.

Multiple by that multiple tous and the rhoda tory's right.

So you could approach this bye memorising straight up the muscles that belong to the transfer so spy now.

Or maybe you have a spotty memorization because you did it on tuesday night, which i don't recommend it start now start now start now start last week, but at least start now remembering what belongs toothy director spine a group and some clue as to when we talked about this, please.

What do we know about the function of the transfer ?

So spine alice muscles in terms of rotation ?

Left one's i'm going to pull my spine iss processes towards my what are these transfers processes on the left side when i do that the distance that shortened when i pull my spine iss process towards the left side of my trend by left transfers processes and i rotate towards the right, so these are contra lateral road.

We just did this so you can write this down for your notes to remind you to remember this semi's analysis multiple tous rhoda tori so what are we taking away from this review ?

Learn the muscles that belonged to the groups i have an idea where the groups are.

Oh, superficial the deep.

Oh, this is hard.

The most superficial muscles.

We're not talking about that was in the picture of the beginning.

So then that then we have the intermediate layer, which consisted of two muscle groups and then we had a deep layer.

So who's in the intermediate layer ?

We just talked about that.

Which muscle groups belong to the intermediate layer and then go deep.

Oh! So if you were descent acting from superficial too deep in the cervical region, this is a really really hard questions, and it's really just to talk about where these groups ly with respect to each other.

Okay.

So d a c b.

I guess i have to turn that off.

Spleen here and long jess amiss.

So i just said that the intermediate layer had the spleen ius innit and this cleanest muscles and the erector spine a group.

Maybe you recognize a is a member of the erector spine a group, so it's hard to know those are both in the intermediate layer, so it might be hard to know which is which so this is a little bit advanced to recognize that.

Spleen yous is actually more superficial, even then director spiny in the cervical region.

That's advanced.

These two are in the intermediate layer.

So now we're going to go deep and we have semi sp analysis, which we identified just a moment ago as one transfer so spine alice muscles and that one is next.

These are both transfer so spine alice muscles.

So again, it's hard to know which is deeper, but the rotator is actually are.

So i would be happy.

Actually if you were able to, uh, figure out, which two for the intermediate layer director spine, eh and spleen yous.

And then which to belong to the deeper layer the transfer so spine alice.

Beyond that it's kind of advance detail.

Oh, she's doing it again.

All right here we go and you have unanimously chosen the correct answer almost, and let's talk about why this is correct because lateral flexor has come in on ly one flavor.

It's a lateral period done.

There is no such thing as a contra lateral lateral flexor does not exist.

Lateral flexion is on ly controlled by the by it's a lateral lateral flexors.

This question was to remind you of that.

So even if you don't remember what quadrant islam boram does.

If you had to answer this, you would say, but lateral flexion can on ly be controlled.

It's laterally, so i'm going to go with superficial too deep on the anterior side, this one is much, much, much, much, much, much, much much easier.

Okay, we're slowing down.

And here we go.

I'm going back so we can talk about it wei.

Have some doubt let's talk about this.

I thought this would be so much easier.

So what is right under your skin on the abdominal wall rectus dominus and in the medial part of the abdominal wall.

But if you move, laterally would be external open.

Those were the most superficial so notice.

I don't have external bleak up there because i is that the same level is rectus dominus in terms of superficial, what's deep to external oblique ?

Internal oblique ?

What's deep to internal oblique trans versus have dominus and where is so as major deep deep deep deep deep.

It's right there by the lumbar vert vertebral bodies right ?

It's the pre vertebral of the lumbar region so it's deep deep deep deep.

Much easier then doing the same job on the post cheerier musculature.

Name of muscle.

Pick it out of the air.

What's the name of a segmental muscle ?

You have a choice of two mussels.

Segments tall.

What is there in that word that might be helpful motion segment ?

You know what emotions segment use these air muscles that span one motion segment they run from one vertebra to the next vertebra next to jason.

And they're found.

Running between jason trans verse processes and adjacent spine iss processes, so these names would be inter spying nallet enters by analysis an inter trans verse areas look at that nailed it segmental span's emotion segment for two brought to the next door neighbor vertebra he adjacent vertebra.

These are the little q t pies that run from transverse process, two transfers process or spine ist process.

Despite this process inter segment inter trans verse process inter spine iss processes segmental you practically don't even need to think about this, except to understand what the word segmental means, and then you've got it.

Pull out of your hat, the name of one muscle that might belong to the pre vertebral group.

First think where is the previous vertebral group and that might trigger some of your thinking pre vertebral right in front of just anterior to the vertebral bodies.

So we're looking for one word for sure and interior.

Are there some other words that you can think ?

Longest coli yep.

Gave that away capita ce getting warmer, uh, something capital's anterior.

How about rectus capitalists anterior ?

How about rectus capita ce ladder rallies ?

How about longest capital ?

All right.

So those are the questions that i have for you.

Do you notice what i've done here ?

We spent today learning the muscles and then we spent today talking about the muscles.

And that's how we're going to proceed.

Going forward, you might see that there's something called hip muscles and then hit muscles reduction so we'll have ah here they all are, and then let's work with them day for all of the muscles as we move forward, um, i have put in the dry it to know it section in the module pictures like this, and i have suggested that you draw muscle names so that their number of pages on one of them might say so as major over here.

And maybe this one says rectus cap a capital post ear ear.

Maybe something like that, so try drawing them.

And of course, this way you don't have to draw the bones, but it's another way for you to without any cues.

Because the slides are full of cues and the exam won't be full of cues.

It lets you know if you know these muscles or not, and it spares you drawing the bones so you can print those out and draw on them.

And so this is where we're going toe end for the exam on wednesday.

How are you feeling about these trump muscles ?

Getting a better idea what it is that you need to do between now and wednesday.

Of course, for the bone part of the exam you've already been there done that you know just what those questions are going to look like.

So then there's the muscle section kind of need to know that muscle tissue business.

So i am here is promised to answer questions that you might have for the exam, so anybody who has to leave or wants to leave do so, and then anyone who wants to stay.

I will stay and answer questions for you.

Good luck on wednesday and see that yeah.

Thank you for answering my questions today by the way we're gonna be a long wait for someone else to do it, let me turn off my mike personal like always in the second one good