Good morning everyone happy valentine's day.

Some of you may have special plans was somebody special this evening.

If so, enjoy if not.

There are many fish in the sea and lots of time, but in the meantime make sure you do something nice for your self.

This evening there some of you will be unfortunately spending your day taking a lab exam my sympathies, but it will be nice to get that done so you could move on to working with the muscles in lab today.

I'm gonna work through a lot of these trunk muscles.

It's quite likely that we'll get through most of them, but so what that means is next monday the last lecture before the next exam in here we'll have time for review, so you can bring your questions that you might that might pop up over the weekend to class on monday, i'll do some drawing for you on the board, and we'll talk about getting ready for that next exam any questions for me before going on you're turning in assignments right and left.

It's exciting, there's nothing that makes me kind of a shudder inside when i see one hundred and eighty assignments waiting to be grated that's never happened to me before.

So thank you for giving me a new experience in life.

Okay, so moving on if you've got nothing for me right now.

All right, so let's go on last time, we left off talking about the muscles of mastication the muscles controlling the temporal mandibular.

Joint let's move inferior early and consider muscles that might flex the spine sierra.

Some drawings from sixteenth century muscles are needed to flex mixed and right and left laterally flex and right and left rotate this bind.

Where are the flexors ?

Where do you think the flexors are on the left or on the right ?

Oops ?

Where do you think ?

When ?

So how do you approach that question ?

The flex er's are going to short when the spine flexes so when you flex, are the muscles going to shorten on the anterior side of the body serious body ?

Interior.

Okay, so we're going to look anterior.

Here are our flex sir so let's start, uh superior lee and think about the cervical spine next neck flex er's cross the cervical spine anterior lee and shortened when the next flex, it's going to sound kind of redundant when i say this, but i really want to want you to get it that how muscles function is the direction they shortened.

And that's how we assign them to a functional group, right ?

So the neck.

So if youse if you look at the anterior side of the spine, most likely or looking at the flexors.

If you hear the word flexion of the spine that would be words plural, you would immediately start thinking anterior spine one less thing to remember because you understand what that concept means all right, so here is a model demonstrate.

If flayed we're looking at a super's official dissection, just the skin removed of the anterior cervical spine, and we're going to be looking for three sets of muscles.

The stern oh clyde, oh, mass toid you know everything you need to know about the muscle by its name.

We will look for a group of muscles called the scale ings ones and tear one's post here and once in the middle and then so this looks like a job pre vertebral muscle group.

But we'll dive in and see if we can make this job a little bit more simple pre vertebral.

Where are those muscles ?

Do you think deep deep deep deep deep just anterior ?

Just pre do.

The vertebrae muscle group tells you what you need to know so when you are study muscles, you will need to know who the members are the pre vertebral team.

That's another.

So sternal clyde ome asteroid is named for its attachments stur numb clyde o the clavicle mastoi process.

Sea mine frontieres really easily sternal clyde oh, master wait so if i bring my mast oid process closer to mice clavicle this would be my sternum pointing to my sternum insane clavicle by bring these two attachments closer.

Which way is the cervical spine gonna rotate this is, uh, i'm going to do it for you here i'm going consider my right i'm reversed to you sternal clyde ome asteroid i'm going to bring those to my two fingertips together my fingertips are pointing towards the attachment sites and which way does my head rotate what direction is that left so isn't that interesting what i shorten my right sternal clyde ome asteroid i think i have a question for you here which i've just answered for you when i shortened my right sternal clyde ome asteroid which direction does my cervical spine rotate stur.

No clyde o mast.

Oid.

And you have chosen.

Oops.

I was i'm sorry, i wasn't reading my question it's lateral flexion.

It also works for rotation.

Sorry jump to come.

This question was about lateral flexion not rotation.

I'm sorry.

So when i bring these two points together is my right ear closer to my right shoulder girdle yes, so that's right lateral flexion to the right sternal fido mastoi is a right lateral flexor.

But i demonstrate previously was rotation.

You can see that i'm rotated as well.

It's laterally flexed in this position you with me.

Good work.

And let's see that happen.

So this muscle is going to turn green when it shortens.

So right now it's in a, uh this is the right sternal clyde oh, mastoi and it is going to shorten.

When it pulls the head from the position of left lateral flexion back towards the right.

That's what you were saying.

It might be easier when we consider our anatomy man here we're going to see a lot of him literally and figuratively, so this is to introduce you to a concept.

It's a lateral lateral flexion so we've talked about the movements of right lateral flexion and left lateral flexion.

But what we've seen now is a muscle on the right is responsible for right lateral flexion.

And of course, journal clyde ome asteroid on the left would be responsible for left ladder reflection.

So that's a mouthful if we just say the function of sternal clyde ome asteroid is ipso lateral lateral flexion.

What does that tell us that tells us same side ?

So the sternal clyde i'm asteroid on the right side laterally flexes to the right sternal clyde ome asteroid on the left laterally flexes toward is left the function of sternal clyde ome asteroid in general capturing both right and left one is ipsa lateral same side.

It's a lateral lateral flexion new term so let's see our guy here do this movement for us.

And you can see his sternal clyde ome asteroid there on the right, pulling his right ear down to his right shoulder.

Now will move into where i started talking about rotation so i i started talking to you about how the right sternal clyde ome asteroid ends up it right laterally flexes.

But when it pulls those two points together my faces towards the left so the right sternal clyde ome asteroid rotates the cervical spine in the opposite direction so we call it a contra lateral rotator when the right sternal clyde clyde ome asteroid shortens it rotates the spine in the opposite direction towards the left that's odd a muscle on the right rotates towards the left.

But that's exactly because of where its attachments are and i truly truly truly truly.

Ask you to do this at home bring your fingertips together.

Then you never have to memorize anything about sternal clyde ome asteroid you're feeling its attachments and you're doing its function.

No need for memorization at all.

So let's see him do this for us look quick because i think it's only gonna happen.

Once we are looking at him, it is right.

One rotating his head to the left.

Yeah, a little odd.

But some of our muscles of the spine are good a function that way so he won't hear we'll see that it shortens when it turns green.

Now the formal introduction to sternal clyde ome asteroid.

Now that we've explored its function, attach his sternum and medial third of clavicle inserts on the master i'd process now, why is the origin and insertion that way because when that muscle shortens, it's exerting equal force on the sternum and the clavicle in them asteroid process.

But which one do you think weighs less and might move more easily rather than pulling the body over towards the head.

It's likely that the head's going toe so we call the thie masquerade party process the insertion when you turn on both of them right and left at the same time, you get flexion of the cervical spine when you turn on just one of them, you get contra lateral rotation, and if you turn on just one of them, you're going to get ipsa lateral lateral flexion okay, that's muscle one of the cervical spine.

And let's look at it in a dissection view.

There's voice here, so we'll see how loud it is.

No.

Two.

No here.

Right.

Dr.

Chanter wrote for the opposite side when muscles on both sides of the contract together the next place.

So he just described those movements in kind of lay language about where the chin goes when one one of them contracts and you've learned how we would describe that in anatomical language.

If you noticed there, king peace went right when the it started, he said.

Deep to or just underneath the plate is mma, and he lifted something up to show the sternal clyde ome asteroid the plate is mma is a layer of musculature in the skin that we still have some in our neck.

You know how horses can kind of jiggle their skin to get the fly off.

We have a little bit of that musculature left in our net.

So if you make grace, you can kind of make your plate esma stand out just a little bit of vestibular.

Excuse me vestigial.

Musculature definitely outside of the scope of the course, so let's move on to the scaling muscles.

Now we've got an anterior middle and post airier, and they seem to be there so they're shown here for us.

Which one do you think would be be sca lena's anterior all righty.

Let's see what you god and you have.

Made a few selections here.

So let's make sense of this what a way see.

We see um asteroid process, um asteroid process something attaching to, um asteroid process stern and a clavicle so over here is the sternal clyde i'm asteroid so that can't be it over.

Here are three muscles, and they all seem to be attaching to trans verse processes of the cervical vertebrae and some are attaching to the first rib and one is attaching to the second room.

So as a group, these air running from transfers processes to the first two ribs and most anterior.

Is this one so that ska lena's interior.

And so here they are.

This is what we just saw their drop on both sides.

They all arise from the transfers processes that concert on the first two ribs.

So good news here is i'm not going to ask you to remember salinas anterior and scaly nous medias.

Attach on the first rib and the post your attach is on the second rib.

That's much too deep, too much too much detail.

Just remember the most superior to two ribs serve cervical transfers processes to the ribs.

And what do these do well laterally flex the spine they're going toe pull those trans verse processes to the ribs what in aces where someone really has to work hard to breathe.

Instead, these muscles might be used to elevate the ribs.

Now that's gonna happen in a case of emphysema or some serious issue with increasing the volume of the jurassic cavity.

So we typically think this muscle as relating to the function of lateral flexion.

So which direction do the right sided scaly nous muscles latterly flex the neck here they are.

Let's see are these escalators masa transfers processes ?

A rib transfers processes a rib so we've got scaly nous muscles on both sides showed up both sides, but we're focusing on these which way are they going to.

Writes cleanest muscles latterly flex the head to the right there going turn green when they pull that head back towards the right that would be a movement in the direction of right lateral flexion.

So what does that mean ?

Uh, that means that the ska lena's muscles are they ipsa lateral lateral flexors or contra lateral lateral flexors.

When i shorten the right ones they're gonna laterally flexor gonna pull those transfers processes on the right down towards the right ribs ?

So it's it's a lateral.

As a matter of fact, every lateral flexes and ifs a lateral lateral flexor it's in this case we never.

There's no such thing is a contra lateral lateral flexor.

Rotation is a different story, but for lateral flexion.

If you're on the right and you're a lateral flexor, you're going to be an absolute toral lateral flexor.

Okay, so you've seen this figure before we talked about this when investigating what was this structure and it was a cervical rib, but and i said that you would know you had one of these because of some issue in your arm on that side like it was cold or it tingled.

And here's why here r sk alina's muscles, um, and you can see that there's a big blood vessel that passes between a sca lena's muscle and that cervical rib.

So when that's kalina wood contract, it could press on that blood vessel and include blood flow.

Similarly, there are a lot of spinal nerve roots that would pass over cervical rib and again when school lena's contracts.

It could press on those and make for some sensation issues in the arm.

So i'm just putting this up here to finish that story because it wasn't complete unless you knew about the presence of the scaly nous muscles and how it would interact with the cervical rib and these vulnerable, soft squishy structures that are very important.

Okay, so we've seen sternal clyde amassed away the scale, lean muscles and now we're going to meet the pre vertebra muscles.

As i suggested to you, they're just they're very, very close to the vertebrae just anterior to them.

And so what does this dissection show us all of the good stuff has been removed.

The trachea theis soft gifts, the sternal clyde ome asteroids who were quite deep in this dissection.

We're looking at the anterior aspect of the vertebral bodies here and so you can see that's where these pre vertebral muscles are.

There are four of them too long ones and two rectus one's longest their long rectus.

They're straight longest capita ce longest coli capital they had so a muscle that has capitals in its name.

Ninety nine percent of the time is going to attach to the school.

Coli column next so one of the longest muscles has an attachment on the skull.

The other longest muscle doesn't rectus capitals anterior rectus capital his latter alice.

Little straight muscles attaching to the head one anti rly one laterally.

So let's look at those.

These are the suspects for the cap rectus muscles, and here are our longest muscles.

What are these ?

Cervical trans verse processes, attachments oops so you're saying this skull lena's muscles also in this view all right so here they are all labelled for you longest capita ce a long muscle alex that attach is on too bone of the skull longest coli attach is is a long muscle, but does not reach all the way superior lee to attach on the skull.

The rectus muscles are a little short ones anterior and lateral.

And where are they attaching first cervical vertebra ?

The atlas and then on the occipital bone.

And just to drive that point home the three of the four of the muscles that have capitals in the name all attached to the skull.

Longest cola does not.

For those of you about to take the lab examined bones.

What's this little thing here di lloyd process what bonus at on temporal i answered the question for you.

Excellent work.

Okay, and here we come to the business.

You see very much detail here in the description of the origin, insertion not too much.

The longest capitalists and longest coli have origin on the vertebrae and insert based on their name, or rather their name is based on their insertion on where they're attaching and again, the insertion seems to be superior to the origin here.

Again, the skull's going to be easier to move than the whole rest of the trunk attached to the other end of the muscle.

So typically that's how we define it.

If you turn on both of them right and left, you get flexion.

If you turn on one of them, you get.

It's a lateral lateral flexion because all lateral flexes air ipsa lateral lateral flex hours.

If we come over here, we see that these little rectus muscles are very short and very, very, very superior.

There attaching on the atlas first cervical vertebra and then on the occipital bone as their name suggests, and they i have the same function so they are just anterior to the vertebra, so they are flex sir's pre vertebral anterior, too.

And the big overview here no.

What have we got sternum clavicle mastered process here is journal clyde ome asteroid here is trans verse processes of cervical, vertebrae and a rib.

This must be one of those cleanest muscles.

What is this very deep, very.

It's one of the pre vertebra lt's which one do you think it is longest coli right not attaching on this girl so it must be.

It's one of the longest ones because it's long, and it doesn't reach all the way up to the skull.

Okay, so all of these muscles are anterior to the, um spine they're going to flex.

So on your valentine's day event this evening, you should either d'oh self massage for ask your valentine valentine's day companion tick you aske alina's massage right ?

This gets really tight.

I do this a lot you could feel these muscles if you can't laterally flex very easily.

It's likely really tights cleanest muscles, so dig in there and do some studying and get a massage at the same time.

Okay, so, uh, let's watch thes muscles turn green with election time they're turning green with election.

They are flex hours, so watch this to your content.

This looks like a cross section through the neck.

Let's do some fun work here, believe it or not, you can figure out what these muscles are.

Welcome to our first cross section.

We're gonna have more of these this is commonplace for today's medical student, but it wasn't until the late twentieth century that this became a part of medical education.

Why is that ?

Because before then we didn't have cross sectional images easily available to us right ?

We didnt have memories.

We didn't have ct scans until late in the last century.

Okay, so let's see what you might be thinking.

Okay.

Well i'm going back up and talk you through this and beat and i'm definitely there's gonna be a slide that has all the answers for you.

So let's just think together always get oriented.

What's and interior ?

And what's post eerie ?

Er, well, i see something that looks an awful lot like a vertebra here.

So this must be post here e er don't know what they had.

This stuff is anterior, but let's think about it.

What have you got anterior ?

You've got a trachea and tuck post year to it.

You're soft agus.

And then this is any idea what this is it's a gland.

Thyroid gland.

So all the rest of this is musculature and fair game, you khun see some important blood vessels here as well all righty so we've got anterior separate from post here we don't know anything yet about the post here and muscles, but we know what the anterior muscles are what he supposed one is's kind of antero lateral and very superficial.

You can put your fingers on it.

You're sternal clyde ome asteroid right there's a layer of musculature here, which we are not talking about in this course.

Here's a muscle tucked in just anterior to the transverse processes, and there are three muscles here that seemed to be attaching to the trans verse processes.

Now, three four and five are scaling muscles attaching to the transfer of processes and right where you would expect them to be.

So number two we know would belong to the pre vertebral group.

But which one is it ?

It's a picture of the atlas.

No, this is somewhere in the mid range of the cervical spine.

You know that because you see that big spine ist process, so this can't be one of them pre vertebral muscles that attaches to the atlas.

So it can't be any the rectus muscles so that leaves us with longest coli and longest capitals.

Since we're in the middle, i would say my guess would be longest coli.

And there's everything labeled for you.

Highlight this slide.

This could be on the exam.

This is the one case where you would identify muscles on a picture on the exams cross sections.

And find your friend sternal clyde oh, mastoi easiest muscle in the course two study because its name tells you everything you could possibly need to know about this muscle.

You see this dia there it is startled madam asteroid and you have quick a job beautiful so thes are some of the muscles that you saw in cross section.

Previously that we're just not talking okay muscles of the neck lateral view i feel a quiz coming on what is muscle for superficial to section just under the skin here can you find any bonds get your feet on solid ground ?

You know all about the bones at this point and then what he remember about how the muscles might relate to those bones.

And muscle four is you got it ?

Before and here all the answers for you what's this muscle ?

What muscle did we learn about last time that attached on the angle and mandible on the lateral aspect ?

Name please anybody massive dearth.

Thank you very much there's the massacre.

Okay so here we have a summary the spine flex sirs we would put the sternal clyde oh master odin prevert tables they're white the scaling muscles don't have much of a moment armed reflection so if push came to shove he'd recruit them but they don't really contribute that much deflection lateral flexor sirs our sternal clyde oh master what are all of the muscles ?

We've talked about and they're all ips a lateral lateral flex er's the on ly muscles so far that we have talked about that rotate this sternal clyde ome asteroid and it is a contra lateral rotator so this would be an example of a flash card where you can start putting muscles together that contribute to a function so you've got individual muscles.

You've got muscle groups.

You have a flash card for those prevert liberals, and you have who belongs to the prevert evil group.

And then you have this functional approach where you have to generate spine contra lateral rotation who might you be to accomplish that job ?

Okay, so let's move inferior lee and talk about muscles that might flex the rest of the spine and here we have a lovely picture of an abdominal wall.

We see that six pack muscle and what is the function of these muscles that we're seeing here ?

Where are they with respect to the axis of rotation and the sagittal plane anterior to it ?

So we're looking at flex sir's here.

So the abdominal muscles shown quite beautifully here our flex hours, so in particular the six pack muscle is rectus of dominus.

We've seen that word rectus before straight.

Now it's of the abdomen, so let's let's consider what we're looking at here.

We've got a very superficial dissection on the right.

We see the skin subcutaneous tissue some adipose tissue and then on the left.

Those tissues have been dissected away so you can look at the rectus abdominal so should you look underneath this subcutaneous tissue you see it offering over the rectus muscle.

It is enveloped in a sheath of connective tissue that's called the rectus sheath a peculiarity.

And this muscles going too short for us during election is gonna turn green with shortening hello rectus ab dominus.

Okay and details here attach is on the pubic crest and then superior lee on the typhoid process costal, cartilage is so on the rib cage so it's going toe.

Pull the ribcage towards the pelvis, and it's going to pull them together in the flexion wind direction.

So this muscle is unique because it has thes little tendon bands inserted into the musculature tenderness inscriptions is the fancy name, and then there's a line of connective tissue down the middle the line of the abdomen or the linear album that separates the two abdominal rectus dominus muscles.

So this is what gives us that six pack look because thes fibers shorten in between thes tenderness the inscription.

So if we go back to this sculpture, you can see location go tendons, and you can see it here as well.

Okay, uh, let's see our guy our muscle man pulling that rib cage towards that pelvis he did it good work.

Okay, and let's hear about the rectus and dull or thank you.

Yeah.

No.

That's stop here just so we can talk a little bit about that word.

He used appa neurosis and appa neurosis is a flattened tendon ascent.

Actually the tendon insertion this muscle.

One of the obliques that we'll talk about shortly that those muscle fibers insert into the anterior aspect of this sheet, so he called it an apple cirrhosis.

And he's tidying up.

Okay, no let's talk about what inserts or attach is through that.

Appa neurosis so the rectus up dominus is down the middle.

The obliques our muscles that who's fibers are oriented obliquely at an angle.

They're angling in to that, um into the abdomen, there's one more superficial called external openly deep to the external oblique is the internal oblique.

That's easy, so we see our dissection that we saw previously very superficial, and then over here is deeper.

You can see that the rectus sheath has been removed and we're looking at some of the musculature deep to that.

So over here the external oblique has been cut away, so we can look deep the internal oblique and then over here is an even deeper dissection.

So while we're here, you can appreciate.

During development.

The test ease descend into the scrotum, and they exit the abdominal wall through the inguinal hiatus here.

So this is where the men might have hernias of the abdominal wall because there's an opening here, so the abdominal contents can sometimes herniated through this space women.

If they have i have the abdominal content herniation zits through this ephemeral triangle here.

So and that's related to the anatomy that were looking at here totally belonged beyond the scope of the course.

But there it is for us to look at.

Okay, so here's external oblique origin inferior ribs insertion who alia crest appa neurosis from ribs to alinea alba so very complicated attachment.

But basically, i want you to remember ribs to pelvis and right ribs to pelvis.

What i i want you to note, however, because it's very importantly related to the function is the direction of these fibers external oblique the fibers run like you're putting your hands in your pockets why is that important ?

Because when i shortened in that direction, i'm going to pull this end of the muscle towards this end of the muscle ?

And i contra batter lee rotate so it's important to remember that the external oblique is a contra latal rotator and the reason that it rotates the swine contra laterally is because of this direction of the five.

Internal openly same comp located really two pelvis attachment.

But what do you see here ?

The fibers run in the opposite direction, so internal oblique as an opposite function with regards to rotation.

It's an ips a lateral rotator.

So it's going to pull.

Here's the right one is going to pull no.

Shorten in this direction because of the direction of the fibers.

I remember this internal it's lateral to eyes.

And their ips a lateral lateral flexes because all lateral flexor is a rips a lateral lateral flexors.

So i have to caution you to slow down and read the words yes.

Uh, what yeah, yeah, because depending on what was your question what was your question again ?

Was it about is in both.

Yes, it's horribly complicated because it depends on if you are talking which portion of the muscle so iliac crest.

So we have for these fibers.

The iliac crest would be the origin, but for these this portion of the muscle, it's the insertion isn't that terrible, so that's not wrong.

It's very common in these words are not wrong.

It depends on where you are in the muscle.

It's that located.

So i don't want you to worry about details so much remember ribs, pelvis and you're you're good.

This is what i want you to focus on the direction and unction.

I will never ask you a question about is thie iliac crest the origin or insertion of this muscle.

Thank you for bringing that to our attention so let's look at these muscles in action.

External oblique activating this side rotating to the left that's contra lateral and we'll see it's a lateral now.

Let's consider the so called abdominal wall so you don't bones on the anterior aspect of your abdomen you do on your thor x, but not on your abdomen.

So what presents anterior lee is a wall of musculature just deep to your skin, but anterior to all all your all your viscera.

And so let's consider what that abdominal wallace composed of so here's a cross section that i think really helps you to understand what's going on.

So what's anterior ?

This must be anterior, because there's an external oblique from the curvature.

You could tell this is anterior, so we have the linea alba.

You can see the rectus sheath you can see the external oblique inserting into this rectus sheath, which is that attaching to the linea alba deep to external bleak would be internal oblique and then a muscle called trans versus of dominus, which is the deepest of all of the muscles.

It just runs this way, and it doesn't actually move the skeleton.

All it does is compress your viscera, so when you do of all selva maneuver, if you cough you engage you you, you increase your intra abdominal pressure by engaging that muscle come on so that's trans versus abdominal deep.

Let's hear what he has to say.

Right.

Yeah.

Work.

External oblique and he's going to continue.

Yes, i need to move on oh number of the day i want.

We had a neglected volunteered number last time.

I think was number one so let's go with that.

Okay are we all in here we go one i'm having nightmares about this number of the day thing.

No beautiful look at that.

Okay, so one more muscle on this anterior side.

So as major and here we see it depicted in the seventies hundreds very colorfully with a rhino in the background.

For some reason i have no idea why one would put a rhino in a scene that is showing us lungs and and so as major right here.

So this is a muscle that like which muscle in the cervical spine would this be like the scaling czar more like the privilege t brawls do you think ?

It's very, very deep.

It's attaching on the trans verse processes here.

By location.

I'd give it a prevert tea bro, but notice i'm not talking about what it does because look where it's attaching.

It's attaching on the femur, so we're really going to talk about this muscle, not with respect to its function on the lumbar spine, but with respect to what it does at the hip.

So this is just a hello.

It's there, and it's classified as an anterior muscle, but we'll talk about its attachments and it's a functions later.

Okay, so look what we've done.

We've added some more flexors.

We've added some more ipsa lateral lateral flex er's we've added another contra lateral rotator, and we have so far on ly one ipsa lateral rotator of the spine that we've identified.

Ooh, so that's all of the anterior muscles.

Now we're going teo flip about and start talking about the post interior muscles of the spine.

And we already know what the function of thes muscles are right.

They're on the opposite side of the spine from the flex er's therefore by definition amos.

Be extensive muscles on the post cheerier side are going to get shorter when i extend so their extensive.

Now, what happens when you take the skin off the post here aspect of the trunk is you see these muscles ?

He's most superficial muscles, actually our muscles that control the shoulder girdle and the glen of humorous joint.

So we have to go deep to those muscles to start looking at the muscles that control the spy.

So the most superficial muscles on the post your aspect of the trunk don't function of the spine so we're going to started an intermediate layer and then go to a deeper player.

The most superficial of the posterior spine muscles in this intermediate layer are this penis and erector spy name muscles ?

Okay, so let's go find those muscles here.

Splaining it has two parts capitalists and services.

In latin, he pronounced the c softer heart.

Is it serve a kiss or service cysts ?

Anybody want to help me with that ?

Thank you thank you sir vic ous okay, i'll get it right so spleen ius capitals like we expect of all capitalist muscles attach is on the school and then attach is also on the spider's processes here in the cervical region servic in explaining a servant kiss doesn't reach as far superior lee and are they flexes or extensive sirs ?

Let's see them and act here.

They're going to turn green with extension, and this would be spleen ius capitals.

Because of its extent, it's attachment there on go now do we think this is going to be a contra lateral or an ips a lateral rotator when this muscle shortens and brings this attachment to this attachment ?

This is a left one which way do you think the school's gonna rotate two left so our guests then is it snips lateral rotator and we're right.

Were correct there.

It goes turning green.

The one on the left side is shortening when they had rotates to the left, so we have found another ifs a lateral rotator.

Speediest capital finest processes of cervical and jurassic vertebrae.

And then it inserts on the skull.

The skulls is more more likely to move, so we call this end insertion capitals reaches up to the mast, oid process and occipital bone.

The skull and cervical on ly reaches as superior lee as transfers process.

It's a lateral rotation.

We just guessed hypothesized and confirmed and ipsa lateral lateral flexion.

And because we're on the post your aspect spine here their extensive.

Now we're going to talk about the erector spy name muscles.

This is a massive group of muscles, and these muscles are going to extend cervical.

Jurassic and lumbar spine the whole group.

And there he's demonstrating what his extensive director spy name muscle can do, and we'll see them here.

This whole group turning green with extension shortening with extension.

If you short with extension, you are an extensive muscle and here we go.

Wow, that's a lot of muscles, but the good news is they come in groups, and you only have to understand what the groups are.

So we named the medial toe lateral.

Are they close to the spine ?

Are they very medial ?

Then we call them media a spy now us there close to the spine.

Do they are they long, but not quite his medial is a spine alice long juice amiss.

And then if they reach all the way out to the cost alice ribs, ribs or lateral, that's the most lateral aspect and we divide them up in terms of where they are superior to inferior.

So there's a capitalist group.

We know where that is, uh, mussels and the cervical region muscles in the jurassic region muscles in the lumbar region we put we choose a name from here and from here and so we can identify long just amiss.

The wrasse is in the jurassic region part of the long jessa ms group intermediate in its medial lateral.

So here we go here muscles in the long jessa ms group in the capital's regis region cervical region jurassic region and then we can consider the jurassic region and move medial to lateral spine alice.

The wrath harasses long gis amiss the wrath of psoriasis and a lio coast alice.

The wrasse is so you just need to know, huh the orientation a shin and you know exactly where you are in director's fine i grew, and there is a dealio costa wallace lump form as well.

So if you look at the whole chart, it's not a complete.

There aren't twelve three times for exactly lum boram, of course, doesn't have a on ly is missing these too, and so the lem boram group only has one must in it.

He leo cost alice, lump forum and then in the capital's region.

Of course, there aren't ribs to reach so that that cell is blanca's well, so i just need you to understand how you would damn if you were given a name where would you find the muscle ?

That's basically what i want you to take away from this, so let's try that right now, given a name, which would be most medial given a name, which would be most superior.

That's how i want you to approach this so basically all you need to do is remember the medial lateral orientation because, of course, the superior inferior you've already got that.

Happy let's work so right erector muscles erector spine a muscle short with right lateral flexion because all lateral flex er's are ipsa lateral latter affleck sirs.

We got that sophie.

These muscles are going to shorten with the right.

The ones on the right are going to shorten with turned green shorten with right lateral flexion.

Which way will his spine move if he shortens his right directors by name muscles and it will be lateral flexion to the right.

So just some language and pictures to tell you director spine a is an ips elad a rl lateral flex sir.

So now what have we learned if we're just categorizing our post here and mussels ?

We've got everybody's post here is an extensive they're all their ips a lateral lateral flex er's and director spy nate doesn't have a moment arm to contribute to rotation so it doesn't have a rotation function, but a spleen ius does would you see that the this penis muscles are ipsa lateral ?

Ro taters.

So now we're going to go deep toothy erector, spy name, muscles and deep to the spleen e ist muscles.

Dissect those away and look what's underneath and they're very, very deep muscles that are controlling the spine stop for a minute and think why are there all these muscles on the spine post ear ear ?

Yeah, we pick things up.

We need musculature to extend our spine.

This is where we're interacting with the world right look at this huge moment arm from my spine to the chair.

I have in my hand the piece of i ke of furniture.

I'm trying to move from here to there huge roman army.

If a meter have the object, these muscles have to be very, very strong.

We need a lot of musculature post here in italy.

We don't have much anterior.

Lee some of us like if i were to demonstrate sit up right now you'd wonder if i had any musculature interior lee right all about this post eerie er strength.

So we're going tio start looking at what's deep to erect his spine and this leanness muscles and we have three muscle groups here sub occipital muscles.

Right now, you can tell me exactly where those are trans verso spine alice muscles transfers processes to spy in this process.

Actually, this nasty word is your friend and then segmental muscles.

So that's our job.

Now you're looking very deep, so sub occipital muscles.

I just made the proclamation that you could tell me where these muscles were and let's see if i am right.

And here you go.

Yep, tuck them up right under the occipital bone could work.

And in particular to turn this off for a moment they're they're even deeper than then what you see on this side ?

What do these look like to you ?

We like what we saw in the pre vertebral rectus capital anterior do you suppose ?

Maybe we're looking at rectus capitals hello, steve oh! Here the sub occipital sze rectus capita ce post steer e er and in this case, we have a little one and a big one, a minor in a major, and then we have some oblique is capita superior inferior.

So what do we expect of these muscles based on the capitals in their name ?

We would expect them all to attach to the school.

One of them doesn't.

Remember, i said ninety nine percent of the time you're if it says capita ce is going to touch the skull, which one doesn't.

Oblique is captain cheerier doesn't it violates that rule, but least is very close to the skull.

So these your sub occipital lt's what i want you to remember here is that they're deep and they're very, very superior.

Essentially are running between the skull and the first and second vertebrae so they're the post cheerier analog of those pre vertebral muscles that you learned before so i need you to know if you saw this name, oblique assed capita superior i need you to know that it belongs to the sub occipital group, but i don't necessarily need you to tell me what it's origin and insertion.

And here we see can we name these muscles here ?

The rectus two rectus muscles.

I say that because they're very straight, so i would guess those air rectus muscles and here's one of the oblique ce o bleakest and it attach is capita ce and it attach is off this call, so i would say this is the superior one that kind of logic that i want you to be able to move forward with based on the names of these muscles.

You could make some very informed guessing about what they are, so we're going to see these three members of this sub occipital group.

Okay, the rectus capital inferior that doesn't attach on the skull is not shown and we're seeing these muscles turn green with extension of the cervical spine so we've done the sub occipital sze no listing of attachments for you.

So your job here is to know where to find them transfer.

So spine alice all of these muscles attach on a transfers process, and the spine is process every member of the transfer so spine alice group you know its attachments because they belong to this.

Just like you know where to find every member of the sub occipital group.

So let's see if you can identify a muscle that you think might belong to this group.

Based on transfer so spy nihilists.

Okay, and as you can see, these muscles are extraordinarily deep, and you everybody is correct here.

Except for these people, this runs from transfers process two transfers process not from transfers process to spy us process, so this is wrong and this is wrong.

This is spinal process, too spineless process.

The others air running from transfers to spine is processes, so all right.

So here are the muscle names that you need to learn to associate with this transfer.

So spine alice cruise so we have more s word semi spine alice not to be confused with the spine alice members of the erector spine a group semi span alice belongs to the transfer so spine alice group run upward and media lee upward immediately.

So when this shortens, we need to figure out what's going to happen multiple.

This is part of this group and the road to tory's so here's semi span.

Alice runs upward and media lee so when it shortens is going to pull this spine ist process.

Towards the trans first process.

So on the right side when it pulls that spine is process towards the transfers processes on the right side is going to cause contra lateral rotation.

Mult if it isthe same deal contra lateral rotator as well think about what's gonna happen when you pulled this spine isthe process towards this when this distance shortens between this finest process and this transfer's process and the spine ist process moves, it's going to cause rotation towards the right in this case.

Contra lateral rotation, these muscles also have a moment arm in the frontal plane, so they're going to ipsa laterally laterally flick.

And then finally, we have the rhoda tory's and he's also a contra lateral rotate.

Er's everybody in this group is a contra lateral rotator because they all have a similar relationship in that they're pulling spine isp processes towards transfers processes, so they're all contra lateral rotator sze.

And this is going to help to extend their very, very short moment arm in the frontal plane.

So we don't assign them the rule of latter reflection so do you see any details here about attachment sites ?

No.

Whole group spine is process two transfers process and they pull that spine ist process over to the transfer process.

They're all contra lateral, rotator sze.

So what's important is to remember the names of the muscles that are part of this transfer, so spine alice group and their function contra lateral rotation.

And finally, let's look att thes segmental muscles.

These are very, very deep, and the's muscles run between trans verse processes and between spine ist processes.

So if you were going to find an inter transfer serious muscle, which one would you choose ?

It's likely going to be running between transfers processes as its name says between transfers and so you have found this little guy and you're correct runs between two transfers processes, inter transfer serious gotta love these segmental muscles so they either run between transfers processes or between spine is processes.

Inter spine iss inter trans verse serious so here's inter transfer serious that you just identified.

And here are the inter spine alleys between this finest process.

Lateral flexor sirs.

It's a lateral lateral flex, er's and extent sirs last muscles last muscle so quadri islam forum runs between the transfers processes in the lumbar spine in the ilium, so this might be like the skull, lena's muscles and the cervical region and this muscle like fisk, alina's transfers for excuse me lateral flex flexion and let's look at our anatomy mans function of his quad rate islam boram ipsa lateral ladder reflection.

Thank you very much and we'll see quadri islam boram, um in a moment or not, it's just a signal that i should be quitting.

I guess this is the signal that we're done for the day.

So i've gotten through all of the muscles miraculously.

So what will do on monday is cem quizzing some review of these muscles and then i will be available to answer your questions to prepare for the exam next wednesday.

So enjoy valentine's day enjoy the lab quiz this week.

It'll be great to get it behind you and enjoy forty degrees.

See you next week