Good morning, everyone.

We have another cold winter morning.

I want to talk, teo, a bout the course in overview right now.

So you have the first exam experience.

And this was interesting to me because typically on the first exam in the past, without grade craft, always six two thirds, the class gets an a or a b sixty six percent sixty seven percent.

This time, forty nine percent got a's and b's.

So something is shifting, and the mean is normally in the low eighties percent.

And it was lower.

It was seventy six percent on this exam, so i don't know what to make of that.

It could be that you're relying on those other points which to get to where you want to be in the course.

That's fine.

That's your choice.

That's the whole point of all of this.

Okay, so, any questions about grade craft ?

I had promised that i would do a demo in class today, but my student log in password is failing for some reason.

So i could do that on wednesday so i can show you what this looks like as a student.

But for now what ?

I'm going to do is open a new tab.

And maybe you figured this out already.

I just figured it out last week, but if you go to grade craft dot com, then you get a whole window to work with.

So instead of being stuck in that little frame in canvas, you get a whole window to work.

So let's look at what might be relevant.

So far, one hundred percent of the students in this class are failing, but that's to be expected.

I hope you're not too upset about that because there haven't been enough points offered yet to even get on this board.

And here is the distribution of the whole class.

So a couple of students are particularly high because i've already grated.

They're lit review, too.

So they've they've accessed morepoint.

So you can see where you are.

When you log in ish yourself, you'll see an arrow that shows you where you are in this distribution of points.

If you are in this for hundreds or below area, please come and talk to me.

And let's see what we can do to help you move over into a more workable range where you should be in the course.

This is the number.

And the blue here tells me that half of the class fifty of ninety eight have used these pre imposed class quizzes and predicting there their scores.

So that's good.

So i hope that what you are doing is going to grade predictor and taking the time.

It's now we know what got what ?

The scores were all put the average in here, something like that.

And since those were actually earned, if this were you, it would show up is green because you'd actually earned it.

And then you if you just say ok, i'm going to do better than that on the next exams, because now i know what the exams look like, and i know how to study better.

I'm just going to predict on all these exams, this is what i'll do.

And then, of course, once you take the exam, now get replaced with your score.

Then you can take the time and move all these sliders over for the dozens of pre class quizzes you can figure out.

Oh, i'm going to do eighty percent of those.

I'm going to attend three quarters of the classes so you can figure out too scroll over for all of those same thing.

Post class quizzes are more points, so i'm going.

I'm going to try harder to get those done.

And the you've done the anatomy large table.

You aced that.

And now you can.

Now you're in the place where you can do some work so here are all the other so called optional assignment she completed.

Maybe you've completed this one.

About two thirds of the class did the first literature review.

So you can go ahead and figure out.

Look at these assignments.

Look at what they're worth.

Look at what your load is with your other classes.

Figure out which ones you want to do.

So you can lay out a plan right now for how you're gonna get through this course, and i really, really encourage you to do that.

Def questions about great craft in general right now.

I hope to have learned my password by wednesday.

So there are a lot of assignments left to do.

Here's what i want to say.

After grating most of literature review one, please, please, please read the assignment.

When i ask you, teo, right, the research question in the form of a question, i actually mean that and that's not arbitrary on my part.

That's actually because i want you to think what ?

What were these investigators trying to answer ?

If you can look at the question, then you can or if you look at the article, is answering a question than that will guide you for the rest of it.

I need anatomical detail in the answers.

Common pitfall was too not.

Pay attention.

When i say, please format your article like this so please read the instructions.

Maybe you could highlight things.

Or after you've done the assignment, go back and read the instructions again and see if you've actually followed the instructions.

That would be good.

Another one.

Other point is a couple of you chose articles that were not related to modules once before lips, some of you used review articles.

So what is a review article that those instructions said do not use the review article.

A review article is where the investigators review the work done by others.

They don't actually do an experiment.

They just do a literature analysis.

So even though there's lots of good stuff in review articles in order to learn anatomy, i want you to not do that here.

Any questions about.

All righty.

So here we go.

Let's finish up bones so we can move on to muscles on wednesday, i promised you that we were talking about all right, miss red, the agenda's post super bowl sunday.

We're supposed to do with muscles this morning, but no, that is scheduled for next monday.

Okay, so here's all of the things that were going to do learning about these bones.

There's some angles here that are specified.

So we've seen one angle and one bone, the femur.

We're going to learn about some other angles today, and then we'll look about at some injuries.

So here are the bones that we're going to learn about.

We've seen the femur already, so it's everything self that would be destroyed of the femur, the tibia, fibula, all the bones in the foot.

That is our job today.

So here is the tibia.

You're so called shin bone.

So, what do you know about the tibia ?

Can you feel any of these landmarks on yourself ?

And the answer is yes.

Number four in number six are easily palp aided felt.

And you can feel five as well.

Okay, let's see how we are doing.

I think we're there.

And here come our answers can moving on.

What have we got ?

So here is a tibia.

I said that you could feel this landmark.

That's your tibial to barasa tea.

And you can feel it when you're sitting right there.

It's that bump, if any of you i'm thinking back to my catholic girls my catholic school days and kneeling for mass in the mornings.

And if there weren't pads on the kneeling rails, you would feel your tibial to barasa t for sure, if your fingers walk even more distantly, you can easily feel this edge of bone here thie anterior crests on the anterior side of your tibia.

And then, of course, your ankle bone on the medial side is the media malaya lists that belongs to your tibia.

So the con dials are the actual articular surfaces on the femur.

Or excuse me on the tibia for the femur.

So the epic con dials are these knobs just distal to that ?

And then between the con dials is an eminence.

Think of mental eminence, mental per trueba.

Rinse between the con dials that those bumps there, and their claim to fame is that they are where the and here cruciate ligament and post here.

Cruciate ligaments attach.

Okay, so that's the anterior surface of this tibia, and is it a write one or left one ?

Medial anterior, you've got everything there.

This is a right one.

Okay, so you all have mature to be a to be us to be i in this room the newborn no secondary ossification centers yet the utterly cute eighteen month old first grader.

Uh, middle school.

And then here is the high school graduation femur, all those growth plates.

Although caen encontro seas are closed, mature fibula that is next door to the tibia.

And in fact, it is on the lateral side of the tibia.

So we're looking here at that same right tibia that we saw previously, but it's been flipped around.

So now we're looking at the post eerie, er aspect.

How do i know that ?

Do you see the tibial tube ferocity on this view of the tibia ?

New, because that's on the anterior surface.

So this is post iria, and you can see the fibula nestled next to the tibia.

And it's got four land marks and let's go find them.

And here you go.

You can use what you learned about the fibula before class.

You can learn what you know about anatomical terminology.

You can learn what use what you know about the tibia already, but one way or another, he might be able to piece this together.

Once you've done that, look at the proximal.

End these two bones and think about the femur.

Do you think there's a joint between the femur and the fibula ?

No.

The femur is going to articulate just with the tibia.

The fibula does not reach approximately enough to attach to the femur.

Excuse me.

Articulate with femur.

Okay, so here we go.

And let's name these.

We've answered the first question we'd established.

This was a post eerie ofyou because we could not see the tibial to ferocity for the anti rh a crest of the tibia.

So it looks like b a pax of the fibula is what is attaching.

Excuse me ?

Articulating with the tibia.

Apex.

This is the apex, the pointy, the pointy end.

So the head of the fibula is wearing a birthday party hat with a cone on it.

And that's the apex.

Distantly are two very, very important things.

The lateral malaya lists your other ankle bone medio malaya.

Lis lateral malaya.

Lis, you can feel both of those malaya lie very, very, very, very easily in yourself.

You can also how pate the head of the fibula quite easily.

And where are you doing that ?

Pel patient laterally.

This is lateral.

But note this thie on li wei that you can tell definitively that the fibula lying on the table in front of you is a right one hour left.

One is because of that malayalam fossa.

There's a little dent the fossa in the distal post ear e er fibula.

And once you find distal and post ear e er, you can figure out if it's a right when are left one, so that the presence of that malayalam fossa is key to figuring to orienting the fibula.

Right ?

So these two bones are bound together and they don't move with respect to each other unless you've had an injury and tor nw these structures, unlike the radius and all.

Not that actually had a synovial joint to allow rotation along the long axis of the forearm.

These two bones don't have mobility with respect to each other.

And why might that be ?

Why's thie upper extremities designed so differently from the lower extremities ?

What do we want to do with our upper extremities ?

We want to manipulate the world.

We want to open door knobs with the lower extremity.

We want to locomotion or dance, right, but we don't want mobility between those bones because they're they're different function these this function.

Excuse me.

This structure is related to the locomotion function.

So this is an enter aussie iss between bones, membrane, connective tissue and the distal tibia fibula joint is an example of a sin.

Deaths.

Most assists.

It is a fibrous joint.

This's the on ly one that we looked at as an example of a sindhis most this early on in the course which bone is which ?

In thiss trans verse section through the lower leg.

Well, i see a big bone and i see a little bone.

Which bone is bigger.

The tibia is the hefty bones.

So this must be the tibia.

Now can you tell me which is medial lateral in orienting these bones ?

Yes, because this is the medial bone.

Fibula is the lateral ball.

What about anterior his anterior or his anterior down in this cross section ?

What do you know about the tibia ?

It has an anterior crest it as a pointy edge that you can feel all the way down the anterior aspect of your tibia.

So this is anterior.

We're going to assemble the bones of the lower extremities here, and when we do that, an angle emerges called the q angle.

Q.

Short for quadriceps, the quadriceps muscles are associate id with thie anterior femur.

So that's the derivation, the so called q eckel.

And here's how it's measured.

You draw a line through the tibia, you draw a line through the femur, and the angle between those two lines is thie q angle.

I thought i'd put a question in here about the queue angle and i don't know where it is.

It's probably going to pop up, yes.

Oh, that's a really interesting question.

So ideally it it's measured when you're standing and it's conceived of as a structural, yeah.

As related to the alignment of these bones.

When you're standing, you wouldn't normally expect the queue angle to change very much because in order for that to change this, a frontal plane angle between the tibia and the femur would have to change.

And as far as we know so far in this course, the knee is just a hinge joint, so there would be no.

Lateral flexion, so to speak or aber abduction brother of the tibia with respect to the femur.

Now, in real life, there is some of that.

And in fact that's been in that angle gets measured in studies of landing from jumps in particular in trying to understand the mechanism of hcl anterior cruciate ligament injury because there is some aban abduction at the tibia ephemeral joint.

Yeah, great question.

So here's the question that i thought i had put in here, and i don't know where it went.

How how big do you think the queue angle is ?

Eyeball it in your mind.

Commit teo a number is it ?

Seventy five degrees is at five degrees is at one hundred thirty five degrees.

Is it two hundred seventy five degrees ?

What's a reasonable number for acute angle ?

If someone said you have a queue angle of sixty seven degrees, would you look like this ?

No, it's a small angle.

I think the typical value is something like twelve or fourteen degrees.

Let's read about it here eight degrees, eight degrees, so in other words, it's a small number.

If you remember, and here's part two of this, i want you to be able to draw this and in the drawing to know it.

Practice material for this module.

I've asked you to draw this.

If you could draw.

You know what ?

You don't have to remember it.

No, memorization is little.

Avoid memorization.

Intellectual laziness is actually the pathway to understanding deeply anatomy.

If you know the relationships, you don't have to memorize stuff.

Okay, so what structural aspect of the femur affects ?

Q angles.

We've got very different q angles here.

Ifyou're mentally drawing lines through the tibia and through the femurs here, you're going to get different values for the q ankle.

You're going to get a really big one here, bigger than that.

Eight degrees.

So what ?

What's what's determining what the q angle is.

Look approximately.

Look.

Att the inclination angle of the femur.

Small, big.

Cox of era cox of elga, so that inclination angle is setting the relationship of the location of the knee joints to the hip joints.

And hear all the words that go with it, yes.

Oh, i'm loving these questions.

No, because the inclination angle is at the cox at the femur is bony.

There's no amount of muscle strength is going to change that.

And that's what's determining the queue angle, however, what affects q ankle there, rick.

It's a disease in childhood when there's a vitamin d deficiency.

And so the bones are calcified enough and with the loading their that khun change over developmental time, the inclination angle and therefore, change the queue angle.

I don't know of literature that would suggest that in child developing, where there.

Lack of muscle strength might affect this.

I'm thinking about children.

Was cpi or spina bifida ?

Who who have and a typical developmental pattern and different muscle strength balances.

Maybe over time, the effect of those forces might change the inclination angle.

Wow.

Was that a long answer ?

But so maybe over developmental time.

Meaning growing up.

Great questions.

Okay, so back to the details here.

Thie inclination.

Angle of the femur is going to set how the femur angle how the shaft of the femur angles with respect to the shaft of the tibia.

And so if that angle is less than normal, we're going to end up with the bow legged condition.

And if it is ?

Very small.

It's going to produce a greater q angle and hear the drawings that go with that, okay ?

I really suggest you take the time to make these wrongs.

I'm going to ask you about this on an exam.

You can look at the slide or it'll go in one ear and out the other draw it.

It will be with you forever.

Here's normal.

Let's look first gen you've algom.

So cox there is paired with jen.

You've album.

So this angle okay.

I'm miss a word.

Yes, i did hear something important, jen.

You means ni genuflect me cock cement.

So you see these words, val gum.

And there.

Remember those words from the hip cock severa cox of valda.

I don't know why these air singular here.

But anyway, if you have cox vera that reduced angle, inclination, angle you have a bigger ni angle and that you can think of that knee ankle is measured from here all the way around to hear.

So here's jen.

You here's the gen u angle.

So armed.

And so cox.

Ah, vera is paired with jen.

You the other way, malcolm.

So they're opposites.

Jen, you've algom cox of vera opposite.

All right, so now now we can look at what's going on.

So cox vera is a reduced inclination angle, so that's going to drive the distal medial to the distal femur immediately into this knock kneed position.

And when we measure that q angle, it's going to be bigger than typical population.

Typical mean this eight degrees.

This green arrow is bigger than this green arrow.

Bigger angle at me.

Now here's something eric can feel safe.

These words say a small or a negative q angle is jen, you, vera.

How do you get a negative q angle ?

Well, you measure it this a way, instead of that a way.

So now the red line is on the opposite side of the blue lion in the negative direction.

So the easy.

So don't get all worked up about that.

What i want you to think is, is it a is it bigger than eight degrees ?

Is is smaller than eight degrees ?

And, of course, a negative angle would be smaller.

We've got another bone here, though.

Patella, the sesamoid, the little q t pie bone that's your kneecap.

And that bone apparently is going teo.

Articulate with the femur because here are two besets on the post year asked aspect articular faces that, apparently are going to articulate with the female.

So the patella is relevant right now because we're talking about this q angle this related to the quadriceps muscle and the patella lives inside the quadriceps tendon.

So we have a smooth, smooth, smooth side and a bumpier side.

The smooth, smooth, smooth side is going to be covered with highland cartilage that's going to articulate with the femur.

So which one of these is anterior ?

Not this one.

Here's the anterior surface and the patella weaken orient.

Now we've got it.

And here post eerie er.

Now let's talk about proximal, distal and opposite to the fibula.

The apex of the patella points down points distantly.

Fibula.

Town.

Not all apex is point.

So the flattened base is proximal.

The pointy apex is distal.

Now we haven't talked right and left.

That's very that's beyond the scope of the classic depends on the size of these ephemeral con tiles.

And we, unless we have a patel in front of us, we can't see that.

Okay, so we've talked about tibia, fibula, patella.

And now we have all those bones distal to the tibia and the fibula and let's go in and name those at the wrist.

The little bones were called carpools in the foot.

Those little bones are called tarsa ls twenty six bones to learn there are seven tarsa ls.

How many carpools were there ?

It worked.

So we have one less tar soul to talk about here.

We still have five metatarsals like we had five metacarpals.

And like the phalanges in the hand, we have on ly fourteen filan's.

She's in the foot.

The great toe.

The big toe like the thumb has only to fill angie's, not three.

And here's the job.

So here are the tarsa ls to learn and metatarsals and the phil and cheese.

We've got proximal middle distal.

Just like the hands we count the's just like the hands.

The great toe is number one.

The little toe is number five and now we need to do the work of learning the names of these particular tar souls.

So we had in the wrist a proximal row of four tar souls and a distal wrote carpools and distal row of four carpools.

We've got a distal row of four tarsa ls, but on lee to tar souls more proximately.

One of them.

The great big heel bone or cal kania ce, which you can feel sometimes you get blisters on the skin over your cal kania ce in a shoe with a rigid hell cup.

There's a landmark on that.

Cal kania is called the sussed intact gulum tail i, which actually sustained suspends, holds up the tailless.

That's the name and we've got a navicular, some q nia forms and a q boyd.

So let's dive in and learn these.

Let's see if you know anything about these already.

How are we doing ?

Still working.

All right, here we go.

And i'm not going to tell you what these bones are.

Apparently not eyes because they're all labeled in the previous slide.

But let's talk through this, shall we ?

Which of these is your heel bones ?

You think number one that cal kania ce.

It protrudes post ear, ear ly the most easy, so the one next to it is the tailless number six and the arrow there is pointing to a smooth, highland covered surface of the tailless.

There's going to articulate with the tibia, so the tale is's medio and articulates with the medial bone of the no, the tibia here.

So those are the two in in that more proximal or posterior role here.

Um, here is the distal for, but there's all right.

Let me back up muttering let me be clear.

The cal dainius articulates with the q boyd.

The two seas go together, kalle kane, yous and cue boy.

The number two is that q boyd, the tailless articulates with the bone called the norton of vehicular.

So if you remember tailless navicular, cal, kenya's cue boy, then you're in good shape because the three remaining bones are the cuny a forms.

And of course, we can tell the medial end of that from the lateral.

So if you remember that the queue boyd articulates without calle que nous, then you won't get confused about whether this bonus a cuny a form.

And if this is the cue ball.

Hey, so that's that's the trick to learning these bones.

All righty.

What do you know about these fellas ?

And this should be easy because it's just like the hand.

And you're so there.

Here we go.

I'm gonna back up.

This is the ray five.

The big one is once this must be five.

And look, there's a little knob here on the base of this fifth metatarsal, and you could feel that on your own foot.

S o three is belongs to ray won the great toe.

And this is the distal phalanx.

The first distal phalanx two would be the one to three would be the third proximal phalanx and four is the second metatarsal sister bite her left foot.

Am i looking at the door ?

Soul or planter ?

Aspect ?

This is the door soul aspect.

So this would be a right foot.

Okay, so one more time.

Here's what i'm going to ask you.

Is this the medial or the lateral aspect of this foot ?

Are you looking at the great toe ?

Are you looking at the little toe when you think about your own foot and you look at the medial aspect ?

Is there an arch there that you can see ?

You look at the lateral aspect.

Is there an arch there that you can see ?

Okay, here we go.

Navicular.

We think number three is.

So this is the medial aspect.

So this is the great toe, and you can see so number one, do i have this labeled for you ?

Yeah, i do.

But i'm not.

So you don't need to worry about notes here, cause it's label for your next slide.

Let's just think about what we're looking at here.

So this is the great toe distal and proximal phalanx.

Here's the first metatarsal right here.

And lookie what we've got there.

We've got another sesamoid.

Where is that sesame oil ?

Oh, dedicated under the head or the base that first metatarsal him.

Heads or distal like.

The hands.

Let's move over to this end.

What bonus ?

This what protrudes most posterior lee your cal kenya's five is a cow.

What is perched upon top of that ?

Cal kania says the tailless number four is the tailless and you can see that articular surface on its dome.

And here is a true prince of bone that the sussed intact gulum tail i that the tailor sits on top.

And so now that we've found the tailless, we know that the navicular articulates with the tailless and so too must be the medial kenya.

And that's what most of you got.

Lateral side of the foot number five.

What articulates with the cal kania and with the bases of the metatarsals.

Number five.

Of course, that is the q boyd, which i'm sure you have.

Yeah.

So cal kania ce que boyd number four ?

Head or base of the fifth metatarsal is the base.

The boy base.

You can feel that on your own foot, please.

When your shoes are off, feel for that landmark.

What must three be articulating with his cue, boyd ?

A cuny, a form that would be the lateral cuneiform.

And then too articulating with thie q boyd.

And with the tailless is number two the navicular.

Well, okay, so we have made it through all of these tar.

Sal's.

Here's a peek at the cal kane ius.

This is a post airier view of the calle que nous and you can see the sustenance gulum tail i that's going to support that tailless sitting here.

And this is the medial surface medial view of the calle que nous with assistant tacking taylor was coming out of the board.

So so is it on the medial or lateral aspect ?

Well, the tailless is associated with the tibia.

The tibia is the medial bone, so this is going to be protruding immediately to support that tallis okay.

This is a piece of cake.

The foot's just like the hand.

So the metatarsal ole's as we've been talking about number one starts counting with the great toe.

You move laterally to get to number five.

The little toe the like the metacarpals, the metatarsals have a base approximately and the head's distantly.

So when you walk on tiptoes you were walking on the heads your met parked our souls met to tercel heads when you walk on tiptoe shaft is in between.

And we've seen that sesamoid bone toes air.

Just like the fingers proximal middle distal phalanges.

Except for the great toe was just has approximately distal and no middle.

Okay, so if you do any reading about the foot, you might come across these names.

So with so the rear foot is defined as the taylors in the cal kane ius.

And we're going to talk a lot about the rear foot because this is involved in people talking into buying very expensive running shoes.

Okay, we'll get to that little later.

Forefoot is everything else.

Sometimes thie joint between the rear foot in the forefoot is called chopra.

It's joint, and you can see if you were dissecting a foot there you would separate thie tailors from the navicular bone and that cal kenya's from the cue boy.

Everything is a synovial joint in the foot.

And then here some of the details about how they could move.

We don't have a cz.

Much mobility in our feet is in our hands.

The bones were gliding with respect to each other.

And together we'll see how how we'll talk about the movements of the foot more in a moment.

But these these bones are basically gliding with respect to each other.

Can you abduct your toes ?

You can abduct your fingers at the metacarpal.

Fail and she'll joint.

Can you abduct your toes at the metatarsal ?

Phalen ?

She'll joint a little bit.

Okay, this is important.

You all know about the word pro nation and pronation in the running shoe store means something different than pro nation in the clinic, and we're going to learn what it means in the clinic.

So.

Inversion andy version, which you've come to learn occurs at the sub taylor joint.

That's the cal kania ce moving underneath the tailless.

And we can observe that best from the rear and and see that capt.

Kane ius movement rear foot movement.

However, because of all those joints that you just saw, there's a little bit of motion in the four foot so you can get those tw arcel bones to move and scoot and add an ab duck your four foot a little bit.

So when you put rear foot motions inversion inversion together with four foot motions, abduction and abduction, you call those movements in the clinic super nation and pro nation.

So in the running shoe store, the term pro nation is used synonymous.

Lee to mean the same thing has e version, but in the clinic, the word pro nation means a combination four foot e version exiting rear foot version coupled with four foot abduction.

So have any of you worked with children with cerebral palsy ?

If you have, you might have seen a certain kind of gate called equine.

Oh, various kate.

So sometimes because the kids might have spastic city when they walk their plantar flexed and inverted and abducted.

So they're toast.

So they walk with a foot position, like like this.

So there's four foot abduction inversion and plant reflection because of their specificity.

So that would be a super nated foot that clinicians might work, too.

So another place you might see this is in ballet, dancer.

A ballerina on point sometimes devils her foot so evert and abducts to create a line.

That's it.

That's the only place i can think where you would desire the a pro nated foot.

Okay, so we're clear and clinical setting.

We go with this.

In the running shoe store.

This would be cut off when you go to buy shoes.

Person in the store says, walk away from me and they're looking at your rear foot motion, okay ?

I saw this billboard on stadium.

I stopped and i took a picture of it.

And so i want to ask you which side of your running shoe is more worn ?

If you are an over prone ater the medial side of the heel of your running shoe or the lateral side during the question ?

No, i don't know where all my questions have god.

How do you know if you're an over prone ater ?

When you try on the one hundred and eighty dollar pair of shoes to correct this problem, what do you feel ?

Where is the wedge in your shoe, on the medial side of the heel or on the lateral side of the deal ?

You know what ?

It's really cold out.

It's really early.

The super bowl was last night.

I forgive you for not talking to me this morning, so i'm going to treat these his rhetorical questions, and i'm just going to answer them for you.

Okay ?

So an over prone aitor is gonna wear out the medial side of their hell.

And so a shoe that corrects pronation puts a wedge on the medial side to force that calle que nous into the proper position, okay.

Ann arbor running company love's over pro nature's because they could sell them shoes.

Okay.

And so let's talk about mobility in the four foot.

We also because of those gliding joints we've been talking about super nation, a pro nation and four foot aban abduction.

But you can also no amplify.

Here's a ballerina on point.

And there, in order to get this what looks like extreme plant reflection, there's going to be some mobility in these inter tw arcel joints to to add to this look.

Where do you think i won't go there ?

Okay.

Arches in the feet.

When you stand on sand, we can always oh, yeah.

I'm not going to say put it, go barefoot in the snow.

Think of warm sand going barefoot and warm sand when you stand up when you walk down the beach what do you footprints look like ?

You're missing part of your foot in the sand, right ?

It's just you can see the lateral side of your foot that presses down on the sand in your toes and your heel but the mist, the middle the medial part your foot is missing from your sand footprint.

That's because love this longitudinal arch so you have an art in your foot sent it keeps you from pressing down on the sand on the medial side.

So this arch is part boney.

That is how these bones fit together.

And it's part supported by ligaments and muscles.

Why do your feet get tired when you stand for a long time ?

Because the little muscles inside your foot get fatigued that are helping to support this this arch but you, if you are a flat footed person, there's nothing that you can do in terms of muscle strengthening.

Teo change that fact.

So some of its bony.

And then there is this dynamic, the's dynamic soft tissues that are also going to help you.

So the medial arch is more flexible.

The lateral won the lateral arch, the green arches.

What leaves the footprint in the sand, the dotted blue arch on the medial side.

That's why i started, because it's on the side you can't see in the slide.

It's a higher arch.

And then there's trans verse arch.

So have any of you gone to buy boots and you can't get your foot in ?

That's because of your arch.

If you have a high arch, you have you have a hard time forcing your foot into some some shoes, and that would be a high transfers arch.

What i want you to take away from this know that their arches in the foot relate them to your footprint in the sand ligaments helps support if good question come not exactly like carpal tunnel because it's not as closed of a structure, but one thing you get is planter fasciitis.

So how many in here have had that ?

It's it's tough, so they're literally so i'm showing you here ligaments that that restrict motion at each of these synovial joints.

But there's also a layer of fashion that runs from the cal kania ce up to the metatarsals, and that can get inflamed, and that takes some therapy to get rid of that.

So that's the more typical problem that can happen is if you have a connective tissue running along the base of this arch and you stress that either from walking a lot or the other issues that can go into that, then that that tissue can get inflamed.

So long, planter.

Ligament short planter ligaments.

What do i want you to know ?

Here ?

What does the word plant or tell you ?

It tells you that these are on the platter surface and not the dorsal surface of the foot.

So interestingly, thie arches.

The ligaments that are supporting supporting his arch are on the planter surface.

And why is that ?

Because if you wait, bear on this arch, it's going to stretch this the ligaments on the planter surface.

So that's where you need the ligament to support is underneath.

And their long, once in their short ones done.

Which for you are the foot is shown here the planter surface.

What's the number of the day ?

Forty two.

Already.

Here we go.

So there's another ligament.

The so called spring ligament.

That name is not very helpful because it doesn't tell you anything.

It tells you the sense.

The poetic nature of this ligament id helps keep a spring in your step.

Okay, but enough poetry.

Let's goto anatomy.

Where is this ligament ?

The spring ligament.

Oh, if only it had been called the planter.

Cal.

Kenny.

Oh, navicular ligament.

We would know everything about it.

We would know it's on the planter surface and it connects the cal kane ius to the navicular bone.

Okay, so let's get oriented.

Cal kania ce medial side of the foot.

Here's the sussed.

Entao, killem taylor a coming out at you tae list tucked in distal to that tibia.

The medial malaya lists up there, there's the tailless and we've got a ligament running from the suspect tacular tail i over to the navicular.

So what is that doing ?

That's giving a floor for what's called the head of the tailless to sit on.

So it's supporting the tailor's keeping the tailless from falling down towards the ground.

So this is a really important ligament.

Sussed n tacular tail i to the navicular.

And here's where you have to figure out that the tailless is what sitting damn proximal to that ligament and its supporting it.

It's it's like a trampoline supporting them.

This portion of the tailless.

Any idea what this might ?

Killers tendon, maybe.

All right, so we have done the bones.

We have done the ligaments in the foot.

Now let's crawl back approximately and start talking about that knee joint.

Let's put those bones together.

Uh, need joint whole careers air spent on the knee joint largest and most complex joint in the body complex in terms of kanna matics.

That is how this bones these bones move with respect to each other.

And here's why the tibial the tibia is almost flat on its proximal surface.

The ephemeral con dials are like the bottom of a rocking chair.

Those federal con dials air curved and very rounded.

So if you were if you just if if the femur moved on lee like a rocking chair on the tibia.

Your knee would look very funny when you flex and extended it.

So what happens is not on lee does the femur.

Rock, but it's slides on that flat tibial surface, so it's that's a very complex motion.

It moves and tear poster.

The contact point moves on that tibial plateau.

So that's why the word complexities here very complex motion to describe its neither purely rotational nor purely translational.

It's a combination.

That's the complexity.

You've gotta wait bear on on your knees.

Think of when you land on them from above.

Jump many, many times in a volleyball game.

Think about running and at the same time, huge range of motion.

So a lot of demand on those knees.

And which bones air involved.

If you had to come up with an anatomical name for the knee joint, what would you call it ?

Tibby.

Oh, federal joint, perhaps because it looks like the fibula is not involved.

I'm just gonna let you watch this little movie on your own about the knee joint and moving on.

Tippi.

Oh, ephemeral joint is a synovial joint.

So what am i looking at ?

Here ?

I am looking at the distal surface of the distal end of the femur.

And you can see this pink joint capsule, the synovial membrane making fluid nice, smooth articular cartilage on the distal ends of those ephemeral con dials.

And tear post airier.

That's a little advanced for now.

I'll tell you, this is anterior and you'll learn how to tell that a little bit later.

Well, you know the con dials and the intercon dealer.

Not your posterior.

Ah, here is the tibial plateau.

So called because thes kanda lt's air flattened.

So those round federal con dials are moving with respect to the this is thie proximal surface of the tibia.

Here is the fibula.

And what is this ?

To be able to tibial tubarao citi.

Thankyou.

So we've got anterior and we've got lateral.

Inside this synovial joint are the menace sky, a fi bro cartilage pad that sits inside this synovial joint.

And it is not a the these fi bro cartilage pads are reminiscent.

Kathy assad, tabular labor.

Um, and the glen.

No, the glen oid labor.

Um, but there different because they're mobile.

So getting oriented.

There's thie tibial to barasa t.

So anterior is up and it's labelled medial and lateral, which is convenient because we don't see the fibula to help us be able to determine which side is me, the media, which is lateral.

So these air wedge shaped in cross section in on the inner edge thick on the outer edge and they're goingto help to form a nice come for those rabbit federal con dials to to stay, to not roll off the flat tibial plateau.

And it's fibra cartilage.

So we know that there's going to be some shop shock absorption there as well.

Here's a more anatomical view.

Let's get oriented.

Anterior is down here.

Here's the patellar ligament.

That's how i know it's anterior.

So how do i tell medial from a lateral ?

The shape of these two minus geir, different the medial come.

The medial one is shaped like a sea.

The lateral one is closer to a full circle.

Thie.

Other thing that i note is one of the's menace.

Sky seems to be associate id with a ligament, one of the collateral ligaments of them, he and that's the medial one.

So the they're both tied down at their end.

So you can see these fibers attachments that air fixing the these the anteroom post year ends of the menace sky on both sides, but the medial one also is tied down are attached to this ligament so the lateral one can scoot out of the way.

The crushing, ephemeral con dial as it's moving in deflection and extension.

But the medial one is fixed in three places, so it can't always get out of the way.

And so the medial one is damaged more often because of this lack of mobility, it could get tourney where it's pinched between the lateral con dial.

Or, excuse me, the federal con dial and the's tied down places and so it can get tourney.

So we've talked about the madness sky and you can see them here.

Let's get oriented first.

What am i looking at ?

Is this ante or post ear ear ?

What structures are looking at here is the tibia.

I recognize the nabe and tibial to barasa tea on the anterior surface.

Here's the fibula.

More posterior, early oriented and tucked underneath this lateral tibial kanda.

The knee is flexed, so we're looking here at the articular surface of the federal con dials.

There's some ligaments inside the joint.

These air, the cruciate ligaments that crossed.

We'll talk about those in a moment here, arthuis.

A menace sky.

And then we have collateral ligaments on the sides.

Collateral, a medial and lateral one.

And which is which ?

Well, the one that's on the side of the fibula is lateral, so number one is the lateral collateral ligament.

Number two is the medial collateral ligament.

And so you can just go ahead and say that number two is the medio on the tibial side of the joint, which is the medial side of joy, and we've got that done.

Very good and moving on you we go zero right, ante or post cheerier view.

It's a flex to me.

So this is the auntie review and we talked about why that wass anterior view of the knee joint, okay.

This was a question that got asked early on today.

The knee allows these complex motions, so there's a little bit what might be called aban abduction that's allowed and healthy.

But when those movements get excessive, we're going to tear up the medial and lateral ligaments at the knee.

And so, rather than calling it nicely avenue production, we call it varis and valdas loading.

So loading is applying a force in the direction of val ghous.

That's a valukas or varis.

So valukas load is either going to push or pull the tibia, the distal, the distal tibia, the distal lower leg latterly.

And we call that valukas.

That would be the same as exaggerating.

Jen, you the same directions, jen.

You bacchus.

That medial angle gets bigger.

So the clipping injury in football is hitting somebody just above the knee on the lateral side.

That's going to apply a valka slowed and that's can tear this medial menace this medial collateral ligament.

That's what's not allowed.

Thie lateral aspect of arnie is more available for insult from the mechanical environment out there, so it's more typical that we would get hit from that side.

But of course, you can get hit from the medial side as well.

So thes loading directions are consistent with what we have seen previously.

In terms of the definition of jen you valk, um and genuine.

They're, um okay.

You got five more minutes in you ?

No.

Shall we stop here ?

You want me to stop here ?

I'll stop here today.

Okay.

So we will start again, take up again, starting with the cruciate ce next time and remind me not to ask that question again when we have five minutes left.

Okay, so good work this morning.

It was painful to get here and do all this work.

Excellent job.

And i will see you on wednesday.

We'll finish up the bones of the lower extremities and start muscle.

I am not behind because there's an extra lecture built in here.

So all is well, yeah.