Good morning, everyone.

It is a very intimate group this morning.

I've never seen such a low head count, but i do hope that you will be glad that you got out of bed this morning because i think that going over the muscles a second time is particularly helpful.

So welcome to wednesday.

And let's get this job done.

So there was one slide that i didn't get to in the last lecture.

That was just a picture of an anatomical snuff box with attendance labels.

You know what ?

Think you can handle that slide by yourself ?

So i'm just going to leave it there for you.

I didn't move it forward to today.

And you might have noticed that they're a bunch of videos to review on your own at the end of the last lecture.

Here we go.

And this looks like a question right off.

Bad back.

So we're looking for a muscle that might have origin here.

So the job is going to be what are we looking at here ?

What bone is thiss approximately a distant land anterior post cheerier surface.

Then, after you've gotten that done what's media, what's lateral ?

Then after that, it's a piece of cake, yes.

I thought i had posted everything over the weekend.

I will go look for that while you're working on this.

It will be it a matter of seconds.

Not sure how i overlooked that.

There it is.

I just didn't attach it, i guess.

Got it now.

You have it now.

Refresh your screen.

Ok, good.

Thank you already.

So that gave the rest of us time to sort this out.

And let's see what you've chosen.

Big vote for triceps group breaking i medial head and you're right.

So let's sort out how you got there.

Well, this looks like the distal humerus.

Anterior post airier.

We know that there's a fossa on both sides and here in post here.

But let's go with the electric fossa so that would be post eer ee err we know medial lateral you left a con dial here more prominent so post cheerier, medial distal that sounds like a triceps.

And in fact the medial head now why could it not ?

If you were confused and maybe thought this was the anterior surface, why would you ?

Core code breaking.

Alice has an origin more proximal, then this very distal a portion of the bone.

And, uh, breaking alice here has the distal attachment.

So if he were confused whether this was ant era post airier, this would have been the choice if you thought you were anterior.

But it was the election on faucets over posterior.

No, we're not going to play this game are weak.

No.

Okay, so there is what i just said but written for you to help you think about it a bit later.

So any clue which muscles are flex ?

Er's of the elbow.

Look at the words.

Think about where you might find these muscles in general.

Anterior or post area.

Can that help inform you even if you don't have the details committed to memory, which i presume you don't at this point, so can you think through to get to the answer ?

All right.

Anybody want more time ?

Who is it breaking radio alice.

Or is it a cortical breaking alice ?

So let's think about hora codebreaking, alice, where does that attach cora co tells us ?

Coric oid process breaky alice tells us the humerus that muscle flexes thie glenn oh, hugh meral joint.

Does that muscle cross the album ?

No.

So even though it's affleck, sir, it's not an elbow flex er so sometimes the big picture can get you where you need to be.

So you can so that's that's correct.

Break your radio, alice.

Let's think about where that attach is.

That attach is humerus, the break apart and the radius.

So it does cross the elbow.

And you might have remembered that we talked about breaking alice with the biceps breaky, either breaking alice the core code breaking alice as an anterior muscle as a flex, sir.

So putting the muscles together by function when you study, i can help you sort this out, even if you don't exactly remember what break your radio.

Alice did.

So, uh, let me just stop for a moment and say when you study muscle a cz, you are thinking about this.

I would make a flash card for every muscle and debbie, then them up and do five a day, for example, some number like that.

Just focus on five muscles today, different five muscles tomorrow and then rehearse.

And it's good.

Yeah, rehearsed the second set after you've finished learning today's set of muscles, and you might want to group the muscles that you're learning together by function.

So maybe you had a shoulder flexor day or an elbow flexor day that that way the muscles are coming together in their functional groups without specifically having to study who are the elbow flex er's already are putting them together because you're studying them by where they are a group, just a suggestion.

Name a muscle that inserts at eleven.

Ok, where the heck is eleven ?

Here's eleven right here.

Name the bone.

Name the landmark and see if any bells go off.

What attach is too that landmark on that ?

Any clues if it attach, is to that phone ?

Does that give you any clue as to function ?

Does that trigger a thought ?

Pulling it out of the air.

Okay.

Let's see what you have decided.

You have decided that it is why seps break bicep without an ass.

Alrighty.

Gotta love that.

Thank you.

That makes my day biceps breaking.

So we're looking at the radius.

We're looking at the anterior aspect of these bones because we're looking right into that truck lear notch of the onl radio to ferocity for attachment of the bicep without a net.

Okay, radio to veracity.

Which of the following muscles originates on the medial, eh ?

Pecan dial of the humor.

And i see somebody already reaching for their media.

Lepic con dial.

Which is wonderful, because maybe when you were studying, you were touching your medial, eh, pecan dial while you were thinking about those muscles and it's in your body and lets your body help you.

Oh, yeah.

Oh, yeah.

Media leper con dial flex.

Sirs who ?

Good job.

Now you could if you remember that the media leper con dial is associated with attachment of flex our muscles, then you could immediately eliminate cnd because they have extensive er in the name and super nater.

Oh, you have no idea where super nature attach is yet, but maybe you'll remember that we talked about super nater with the extensive search for sure we didn't talk about super nature with lex.

But flexor carpi radio is crypt.

All right, put the muscle insertions and the correct order.

So let me tell you where these are.

Thirteen is here.

Twelve is here and ten is here.

So we are looking for a look.

I've helped you this morning with which muscles were trying to pin the tail on the donkey here this morning pin the muscle insertion on the bone, i guess is the game we're playing.

Bones anterior post cheerier.

Get that straight, then dive in for the details.

Thirteen.

Well and okay.

We have one very popular answer.

Thirty one.

So let's see if we know what that is.

So we're looking at post eerie er surfaces here.

There's the electra non process.

Oh, no.

And here's the radius.

So let's start with number ten.

This is a muscle that inserts on the radius.

So this might be a pro nature or a super nadir because it's inserting on the radius.

So it might be involved in that function.

And the only super nature a pro nature on the just one super nater.

So in fact, this is where super nater insert.

Twelve and thirteen.

This is triceps and antonius and triceps is twelve.

That very small, discreet insertion an antonius has throught insertions.

So that is what i have shown here.

So remember, antonius has not very much cross sectional area compared to triceps, but it has deceptive because it has this big insertion site you want.

You want attach triceps because triceps is such a big muscle.

But in fact, triceps has a very small area of insertion on the electoral process.

Okay.

What is the function of this muscle ?

Speak of the devil.

And you have decided that it is.

Collection and super nation.

Whoa.

This is a case where we need to remember.

We're looking at the post cheerier aspect of the joint.

This is post airier.

This is post area.

Remember ?

I said make sure you get oriented first.

Good.

What bone does this muscle even not even knowing its name insert on it's just the owner or the radius.

It's the omagh.

So therefore this muscle can't function as a pro nature or super nater, not inserting on the radius.

And what would that be ?

That's little antonius.

So here is the broad insertion of antonius on the owner, which, by the way, we just saw and here's triceps.

Collateral or medial at the condo.

If this is post area and here all these muscles that are going to extend the fingers, this must be the lateral epic conduct.

Lateral epa kanda lightest itis inflammation associate with the lateral epic con dial, now sometimes called tennis elbow, and this is why it happened.

Spending a lot of time playing tennis for the first time in the spring, when maybe you haven't played it in a long time.

And use of these muscles catching to the lateral epic conned.

I'il get tourney little bit micro tears strange and those muscles attached to the lateral a pecan dial.

So that's where the pain is felt.

Oh, my jin teo, you isthe what some of those muscles involved in lateral epic.

What ?

Muscles ?

Yeah, the lateral epic con dial.

Here you have major choices and we have a resounding majority for extensive karp radio.

Alice.

Brevin no.

Extensive public is longest an extensive.

Also don't all extensive, sir's attack have origin on that ladder at the conduct.

No, some of the deeper muscles, uh, had a origin the forearm bones themselves and didn't reach all the way up to the humerus.

So that at that i would say it's kind of an advanced question because you can't just answer it from knowing that extensive attached to the lateral epic con dial.

You have to know a little bit more detail, but perhaps you remember spending a lot of time talking about the extensive is in the superficial group and their attachment on ladder off the condom.

And apparently you did, because we have a majority answer there.

Okay, so here we are looking at what, anterior ?

Our post area.

Post cheerier.

Thank you.

And medial or lateral, eh ?

Pecan dial ?

Well, you've got a thumb there to help you figure out lateral and you've got a great big epa con dial on the medial side that the muscles aren't attaching to sew.

All of these muscles are taking origin on the lateral epic.

Conned ill.

We know their extensive sirs because they're on this post.

You're here surface.

So can you sort out which one is which ?

And you've done that.

So let's see what we've got.

We have got one answer that more than half of you.

Like, let's talk through this.

So let's start with the easy one.

Number three.

Lateral up akane dial origin insertion on the base of the fifth metacarpal.

So that's going to be our extensive carpi ownersside mary.

Easy.

So one and two are too extensive carpi mussels, one longest, one breathless, which is which, and we sure can't tell from looking at their insertions on the base of the second and the base of the third metacarpal.

But we can see a difference up here at the origins, and number one is going to be longer because it has a more proximal origin.

So number one must extensive carpi radio is longer.

And it happens to attach on the beast number two there.

And here's everything labeled for you.

Which of these four arms is super nated ?

Okay.

Thie obvious to most is that the forearm in anatomical position is super nated.

Pro nation crosses the bones of the forearm.

And if we were to look at this carefully, we can see that meeting the prominent media lepic con dial is on the ulnar side, so media lines up with medial.

So that's anatomical position.

So good job on the left.

But let's talk about this.

What muscles do you see in this picture ?

You see, two pro natures and one super nater.

So let's talk about let's look at the picture of super nation and think about the muscles that are going to prone age.

Here's pro nater, terry's and here's prone ater quad radius.

When these muscles shortened, they're going to pull the lateral side of the radius immediately towards thie origins, which are on the medial side, resulting in this position.

This picture is really great because you can see that so easily.

Conversely, here super nater an attachment on the lateral epic con dial and origin on the lateral of kandahar in an insertion on the radius.

And look at how it is stretched and its fibres are our lengthened as it wraps around that pro nated radius.

So when this muscle shortens, it pulls the radius back around into this position of super nation, the fibers air shortened here.

So this this these two pictures might help you understand how the pro nater shorten in pro nation and how the super nader shortens with super nations.

Labeled for you.

That's all i've done here with this life.

Okay, move it distantly.

We're looking for a muscle that insert here at six.

What muscle inserts here.

What bone is this ?

What surface of this bone is it ?

Anterior post area.

See what you got.

It's on your mind here and we see breaking alice.

Break your radio.

Alice prone ater quad traders what we got.

Oh, it would help if i'd shown you the right number.

This is a five.

This is a five.

I was miss reading it.

So those of you dad there.

This was the insertion pro nater quad rapists.

We're partly right.

It's actually the origin of pro nater quad rapist.

Because prone ater quad rate is would insert on the radius.

And this is the ulna.

So it's the origin of that muscle.

So here's prone ater quad rated.

So i'm very sorry.

This i was wondering why this red line was over on the opposite side.

This is the style oid process of the what bonus ?

This oh, looks like the radio.

The style oid process of the radio, so right and that is break your radio.

For those of you who could read six more easily than mike.

You're right.

Confusion be okay with me on that one.

I will take silence as yes, we're with you.

So the correct answer there years break eoe rady, alice inserting on the radio.

So why isn't this a pro nater or super nadir ?

It's inserting on the radio.

It's moment arm is such that it doesn't have a moat moment.

Arm it right in line with the axis of rotation for pro nation super nation, so it doesn't contribute much.

And in either direct, it can pull.

Actually, it pulls the forearm up into this neutral position, which is a little bit advance.

So we're just not going to be concerning ourselves with that function.

Okay, so which muscle inserts at nine.

This time, i'll get it right.

Here's nine here's nine.

Which bone am i finding nine on in each picture and it looks like you.

Khun c nine.

Whether you're looking at the anterior or the pot, are the post year your view.

So what muscle is nine ?

Okay.

Yeah.

Everybody loves prone ater terry's for an insertion on the lateral aspect of the radius.

Good work.

I think that i put a checkmark heritage.

Mid radius pro nater terry.

Prone ater squadre tous insert destroy pro nater terry's mid radius crow nater, squadre tous distal radius.

Also distal radius we just saw was break eoe radio.

Alice.

Okay, name a muscle that originates at three.

Here is three.

What bone is that ?

Is that medial or lateral ?

Does that help you ?

We're looking for muscle that has origin on that landmark.

Okay, that landmark looks to me like the medial, eh ?

Pecan dial.

So we're looking for anything with flex, sir.

In the name.

Flexor the flexor carpi ese palmyra's longest pro nater terry's these four muscles.

Uh, pro nater, terry's lateral radius flexor carpi radio alice paul maris longest, which may or may not have and flexor carpi all nerys.

Wish we could help.

All right, so anyway, here the muscles that were candidates for answers to that question.

I want to add a question.

If we'll have any suggestions, get to our next free response.

Maybe we can come up with some suggestions for the lonely person.

Okay, anyway.

Medial, eh ?

Pecan dial, anterior surface.

I see the tro cle and the capitulation, so i know i'm anterior flex er's affleck, sir to the radio side of flexor to the owner side and palmeiras.

Longest not shown in this picture is pro nature terry's, which also would have been correct.

And there's everything's labeled for you and let's talk fingers.

Now we are naming a muscle that inserts a twenty four color coded to help me find twenty four.

Here is twenty four.

Here is twenty four twenty four.

Looks like it's the lateral surfaces of the for land.

Jeez.

Looks like proximal middle distal the land.

So the middle full land is this anterior or post ?

Yeah.

Anterior posterior is your first job.

And then you could take it from there.

Okay, here we go.

Soon we seem to know this is the flexor side.

Excellent.

You saw piss a form.

You know it was the palmer side of the hand.

You knew you're looking for a flexor.

Good.

Now which is it ?

And the answer is that the profundis, the deep one reaches the farthest.

So it is not the profundis.

It is the superficial.

Okay, let's consider carpal tunnel syndrome.

We talked about it before in terms of what formed the carpal tunnel, the archway of the carpools and the transfers carpal ligament that puts a roof over that tunnel.

And i mentioned that there were soft tissues that passed through that tunnel.

Now we can name them.

So, uh, many of the soft tissues you now know are the tendons of these long flexor finger flexor muscles.

So four tendons of the flexor digit or, um, profundis and the superficial ?

How do we tell them apart ?

Superficially, alice is more superficial, so closer to the skin of the palm of the hand profundis deeper closer to the carpal bones themselves.

In addition, we have flexor politics longest the flexor of them.

And we also have thie this yellow thing, this yellow thing we don't talk about in this course, except to mention that it's there.

That is a nerve.

This the median nerve and its supplies sensation in part of the hand and fingers, and it controls some of the muscles thie, intrinsic muscles of the thumb that we're also not studying.

But when that carpal tunnel is smaller or these tendon swell and get bigger, there's going to be an issue.

And so we can see here now what thes structures are inside this carpal tunnel, in this case, compressing the medium nerve and the surgical treatment of this is to transect the trans verse carpal ligament to allow more space for the soft tissue.

So if you follow this link, i can see the surgery itself.

So now we've finished the story of carpal tunnel syndrome because we know why mouth sing or typing or cutting up chickens all day in a factory can result in carpal tunnel syndrome because the long finger flexor tendons can get inflamed.

Hey, back to the pin.

Name on the muscle game.

Here is muscle eight actually tendon of muscle age.

And what at my face is this the anterior or the post ear ear aspect of the forearm that we're looking at here ?

And how would you know that ?

And then decide what you might be looking at there.

I see flecks, sir.

I see.

Extensive.

So we can solve that by knowing it for looking ante or post here, mostly extensive and mostly extensive digit team enemy, which i think is quite a good answer.

So how do we know that this is post eerie ?

Er so what might we expect to find ?

Post ear ear double double tendons to the fidgeting men ime double tendons to the index finger ?

I don't see a palmar fascia.

I do see anatomical snuff box muscles, thes diagonal muscles.

We don't see those on the anterior surface.

And in fact, there's the anatomical snuff box right now.

That right there.

So all of that is giving me information that this is the post cheerier side.

And they're dis labeled for you.

Number of the day.

Five pie o pi.

Whoa! Hi.

How many digits are you going to go with pot ?

I was going to say the number of the day was one cause it's the loneliest number, but we're going to go with pie.

Okay.

Thank you.

This will be fun for me to look at because i'll get lots of different thing.

Okay, so moving on.

Name the muscle that attach is a twenty seven.

No way.

We're not going to have a quiz.

We're just going to be mentally answering this question.

Are we anterior or posterior ?

Do you see piss of form ?

No.

So we are post ear e er so what ?

Attach is all along here in the middle.

That's the extensive expansion expansion.

So this is denser, digital.

Or, um, looks like you're gonna have to actually put that in your notes because i don't have the answer.

Slide following so extensive digit oram is shown here.

Honey, click on extensive digit torm.

Okay, we're going to spend a lot of time with this cross section to see if we can sort out relationships among these muscles.

So you have been told where the radius and ulna are.

But you haven't been told here on this figure.

It's not labeled what's anterior and what's post you see, you gotta figure that one out yourself.

What do you expect to find, anterior lee ?

What you expect to find post eary early with regard to digitize your, um, muscles ?

Okay.

And here we go.

Either here or here.

I agree.

It's up here.

Extensive digit or um, and why is that ?

Because on this side you might see one, two, three, four tendons plus another one, two, three, four tendons.

So eleven and twelve are the two flexor digit or muscles superficially and profundity.

Good work.

Find extensive carpi radio is longer your extensive carpi radio alice breath.

Like this, the hardest cross section, all of them that we're ever going to look at.

So hopefully year, clicking on something on the radio side something on the extensive side, so nothing.

And in fact, it's these two.

They traveled together.

They're inserting on the base so the second and third metacarpals would expect them to be near each other.

So five is yet to be determined what five might be, but three and four are the extensive car peas.

And i'm sure i have this labeled for you later.

But let's just keep, oh, get out of that dorsal labeled force.

So here we go.

Finding extensive carpi all nerys, we found extensive search carpet radios, longest brothers.

Now let's find extensive carpi all narrative.

Already.

Here we go.

Eight nine, both extensive side that is post airier or dorsal, both close to the ulna.

Not on the extensive side.

So eight or nine, which is it ?

And it is nine.

So we have to determine what eight is going to be that's going to become so.

Hear things labeled for you.

Three and four are the extensive sirs, the carpal side of the wrist.

Nine is thie.

Extensive search of the ulnar side of their risk, so let's keep working.

Snuff box muscles.

Anything that might be related to the what ?

Which side of the wrist do you think he would find snuff box muscles on ?

And then what ?

No, i can't draw a box around the right answers because they don't fit into a an exclusive rectangle.

So i'm gonna label that elsewhere.

But let's talk about that for a moment.

Can't be three and four because we just decided those were the extensive carpi radio alice longest and breathless.

It can't be anything over here because this is the all night side of the risk.

We've already decided what nine is anyway.

Not here, because i've already told you what those were and those are exercise.

So what ?

One and two arthuis anatomical snuff box muscles the side of the snuff box that has two tendons together, and that's the most lateral part of the snuff box.

So those are what the abductor and the brevity abductor.

Politics longest and extensive policy breakfast.

The to be muscles two mussels with bees in their names.

Van five is the extensive politics.

Longest finally figured out what five is and there's a space between them because the spaces fuck.

And if you put your finger in the snuff box, you're pointing at the bases of metacarpals two and three, and that's the attention.

Extensive carpet radio alice insert.

So this is not obvious, but when you about it, it begins to make sense.

Finally, let's start looking over here on the eventual or palmer side.

And fine flex sirs of the fingers in particular flexors digit orum superficial alice.

Flexor tells you whether it's going to be palmer or dorsal.

Superficially, alice tell you its relationship.

Two other muscles.

So the anatomy's too named.

This muscle was helping us because it's the superficial one.

It's closer to the skin.

Twelve is flexor digit orum superficially, which you just indicated eleven is flexor digit orum profundis.

Because it's deep, it's closer to the bone.

What do you think thirteen might, given our discussion of carpal tunnel syndrome ?

The median nerve ?

Or it could be palmer's long.

We don't have nerves in here.

We just have tendons.

It must be palmares lock.

And i probably have a question about that.

All right.

Click on flexor carpi radio.

Alice.

First thing to do.

Witches.

Palmer, which is dorsal on the figure.

And here, post airier.

Where do you expect to find affleck, sir ?

And where's the radio ?

Side of the risk ?

Well, we've identified fied, all of these.

We've identified this, so it's either fifteen or fourteen.

Fourteen seems to be compartmentalized in some kind of ah compartment with thes finger flexors.

So in fact this might be a flex er of another digit that we haven't identified yet.

So fifteen is the flex, sir.

The risk on the radio side.

Labeled for you here.

Ten is flexor carpi all maris.

Fifteen.

You just identified as flexor carpi, radio alice and fourteen in this same compartment with flexor digit torm superficially flexor digital profundis is the flecks of the thumb flexor politics longer.

So the news here is not only what fifteen is but also what ten and four r i think we've inventoried everything here.

Yes, we did.

So this is tough.

I would spend some time with this cross section so that you could identify any of these muscles that we've just identified in class.

Let's find the insertion of extensive carpi radio.

Alice longest.

Oh, dear, this is a detail.

Where would you expect an extensive search of the carpal side of the river to insert can start there.

Already.

Let's see what you have decided.

You have decided.

No, we want bass some metacarpal.

That's where we expect to find these wrist flexes and extensive to attack.

And i see a lot of traffic here.

At twenty nine and thirty, base of the second space is a third good job and in fact number two is associated with the longest detail, detail, detail, detail.

Let's find the insertion of flexor carpi onaran.

Looking at the palmer surface here.

Where's that flexor carpi yl maris going to attach ?

Okay, here we go.

And we're looking for ownersside.

Base of the fifth piss a form.

I'm happy with with anything here.

Okay, now let's let's leave muscle attachments aside for a moment and think about muscle function.

This movement is called.

In your head.

You're saying ulnar deviation.

So what muscles are going, tio war synergistically act together, synergistic turned on by the brain at the same time need to muscles to make this movement.

Which muscles are they ?

Okay.

So what we need are these two.

You're correct.

We need the two all maris muscles because those air going toe pull the wrist toe towards thie ownersside, they're gonna shorten and owner deviate the risk if they're turned on at the same time.

So we could get pure ulnar deviation to cancel out the flexion.

We turn on the extent, sir, to cancel out the extents chin.

We turn on the flexor so these two mussels come on together to create pure owner deviation.

That is no other movement, but all my deviation.

That's unusual.

We haven't seen that before.

That there is no muscle whose job in life is owner deviation.

It takes two mussels to cause this movement.

Okay.

Extensive ditore.

Um, i imagine this question is about the question mark.

Muscle.

And there's the answer.

Okay, so before we get to the answer, let's look at what that muscle might be.

So, anterior or post ear ear, there's the electra non process in the election on fossa.

That's posterior.

I know.

I'm looking at a bunch of extensive er's.

And even if i didn't know that here it's labeled for me, so i know i'm post eerie.

Er, i know this is lateral, eh, pecan dial.

So this is a muscle that is origin on the ladder like pecan dial.

But importantly, where does it insert ?

And i'm following this tendon all the way to its end.

And i'm ending up on the digit.

E minha me the little finger.

So there's extensive digital men i'm liking that.

These questions were getting he's here.

So what have we done here ?

Well, extend third digit, or, um, has been dissected away so we can look at the muscles that air deep to it.

So we're looking at this deeper compartment, posterior muscles of the forearm and the tell tale diagonal path of the anatomical snuff box muscles are shown here, but the question mark muscle is deep, and i don't remember anything about its origin, but i'll look at it insertion to figure out which extensive it is, and it's going to the index finger.

So this must be extensive, atticus.

Find your first metacarpal.

Know what bone you're talking about ?

How does that bone move ?

Then start thinking about this question.

If your job was to boo the first metacarpal.

Yes, you would be the abductor.

Good job.

This muscle is very important in our world of some mobility that, like, suppose we have to haul that first metacarpal around two ducked that thumb so we can do opposition movement.

So this muscle is really important.

It's causing motion at the first car po metacarpal joints, and to do that it attach is on the base of the first metacarpal.

All right.

Twenty one, twenty two and twenty three.

Twenty one twenty two twenty three are we looking ?

Anterior post area.

Which ditch ?

It is what phone ?

Are attacking.

Which bones are these muscles attaching too ?

Let's talk about this.

You just hold me that abductor policies longest attached on the base of the first extensive publicas.

Longest attach is on the proximal and the longest attach is with on the distal phalanx.

So you hear are the insertion anatomical snuff box muscles.

Did you get that in your notes ?

Because i don't have it for you here, okay ?

Uh, maybe i haven't.

Well, i guess we're going to continue our discussion.

Shin of the anatomical snuff box mussels.

One, two, three.

One, two, three.

What's the difference here ?

Uh, the difference is that the dissection on the right, the origins of the muscles are exposed by the removal of extensive digit or, um, here you can see the origin, these three snuff box muscles.

And can you figure out which assertion is your big clue.

And you're there.

Still haven't labeled.

All right, let's label thes one is the abductor and i'm following that.

Let me do it.

Here.

You can see the path may be more clearly.

Where does it insert it ?

Inserts on the base of the first number one is abductor.

Paul has longer two inserts on the base of the proximal phalanx of the thumb that is extensive polic a breakfast and as we expect, the abductor and the breakfast together form one border of the anatomical snuff box number three insert on the distal phalanx.

Um or polic a.

So three is extensive politics longest at their border of this now.

And we have the cadaver of you here just, you know, so let's find them again.

Four and five are the two muscles on the lateral border of the snuff box here, abductor and the bravest and six is extensive polic a longest the medial border of the anatomical snow.

And there's the space that you've found on your own risk.

One, two, three.

What have we got here ?

Rather deep dissection muscles attaching here in the medial.

Epa conned ill.

Many of those have been cut away.

So that we concede a deeper dissection and can you identify one, two and three ?

First of all, you might note that we've switched back to the anterior surface here because you can see the truck.

Leon, the capitulation.

You can see the piss a form we know, ron.

Anterior forearm.

So we're looking at flex er's of some sort.

And then where did they insert ?

To sort out, which is which.

Two and three rain.

Going to take a little bit more work than one, which is what it's here.

And let's see what you have decided.

There's a majority view.

And let's talk about why the's are what they are.

Flexner publicas longest, of course, inserts on the thumb.

So which one a superficial in which is deep, the superficial you can look at this insertion, superficial is has this split tendon, and we can verify that that's correct, because in the dissection on the right, superficially, alice has been dissected away so we could look deep to it to the profound deep muscle deep to the superficial ist.

And as expected, the profundis tendons passed through the split of the superficial ist and insert on that distal those distal phalanges.

So it all lines up as it should.

What muslim certs here and and tell me what i'm looking at here is this anterior or post your ear, which bone with this correspond to arrow pointing to and then you can answer the question.

And you have selected, i presume.

If alexis er did chitauro profundis.

Because how do you know ?

Because this is the paul of the hand.

This is anterior.

And how do you know that ?

Well, ah, these thumb muscles, the themes are our muscles.

Is that bulge of musculature in the palm of your hand that you don't see on the post cheerier aspect ?

Basically, that's what's telling you this is palmer.

Also you, khun see palmeiras longest in here and you do not see the anatomical snuff box muscles.

So it's so what's their ?

What's not there to help you sort out anterior or posterior and looking where we are were so in lab this week, you'll see all these muscles.

If you're in the lab next week, we're going to tackle the the hip will be much easier than these forearm muscles, so that will be some relief for you.

Go enjoy the rest of your week.

And if you have questions, come to office hours or email me.

Otherwise, i will see you on monday of next week.