Morning, everyone if you are like me.

I had a really hard time getting out of bed this morning.

The alarm went off three times before i figured out what that sound wass.

It was one of those mornings for may.

One reason for that is because i stayed up late grading.

And i'm happy to say that the literature reviews in particular are getting so good.

I'm really impressed by how the quality of your work is really improving.

Generally.

Do you have any questions or comments for me about the be a fine mint ?

How ?

Well, that's going aside from the big question, when are you going to get your grades on the assignment ?

You've turned in s, so my goal is, by the time you get your score on the third exam, everything will be great.

It up until that point.

So you'll have a really good idea what you might need to do or two in the last month of the course in order to finish anything besides my own questions from okay, so here we go.

Let's look at the hip muscles.

I can't.

You like muscles.

They are easier.

Think here's a question we are looking at.

Bare bones picture of a kok soul bone.

So sword out what's anterior was.

Post your ears.

It's a lateral medial view.

And look for three foreign five, three, o three, four and five are really clear.

We're looking for the origin of some muscles three, four and five.

Okay.

Anybody want more time ?

All right.

Still working.

Ready, okay.

Some debate, whether it's the thirteen answer or the eleven answer.

So let's go back and look now probably have figured out that these air the blue teal muscles and again i warn you not to be deceived by the side of the area of attachment, because if so, you're going to think, well, three must be glued ius maximus.

Because it's the biggest muscle and it's got this great big origin.

But in fact, the key to sorting out the gluteal muscles is to remember whose post ear e er and whose anterior and in fact the smallest attachment site here, belongs to the biggest of the muscles.

So five is glutinous maximum and then marching anterior early.

Four would be the medias and three would be the man in me.

Oops, no answer there.

Okay, so let me repeat.

Five is the max most post airier.

Three is minimus bloodiest minimus most anterior and rudy media in the middle number four now the other side of the hip joint.

Here's the femur we're looking for the insertion of a muscle here.

Important to sort out is if we're looking at the anterior surface of the proximal femur or the post dear year, sir.

Which is a little bit difficult.

You have to really know your femur to sort that one out.

How are we doing ?

All right, here we go.

So let's see what you think again.

We've got a mixed, a mixed sense of things so first of all, let's go back to the fundamental question is this anterior post here, your femur ?

And the answer is it's anterior because i don't see to things i don't see the linear aspira, which is r being posterior femur, landmark and also the lesser tro cantor is just out here and the lesser tro canter we could really see best from a post cheerier view.

So those air, too indicators that tell us that this is thie anterior surface and in fact, the he'll muscle that has the most anterior origin also has the most anterior insertion.

So glue deiced minimus actually inserts on the anterior aspect of the femur the surprise already our first meet picture of the day.

Here is a section through the hip joint, and your first job here is to figure out what are we looking at ?

Is this a frontal section ?

Satch ?

It'll section and you can use the bony anatomy to help you with that.

And then once you sort that out, what do you think ?

Muscles five and six ?

What their function might be given this particular view, we were there where they might be inserted on that femur.

And does that give you a clue as to who they might be ?

You can see some life subcutaneous adah bows at a post tissue right over that hip.

In my late night grading last night i read a case study love someone whose grandmother had fallen and had a fracture of the femur.

And although it wasn't described how she impacted the ground while we're here, we can talk about so the landing that puts an individual most at risk for fracturing there proximal femur.

And that's impacting right here.

Because if you notice there's no muscle tissue that is overlying this greater tro cantor.

And if that individual is thin, you can see that the impact there wouldn't be much to absorb that impact load.

So falling laterally right onto your greater tro cantor is particularly dangerous.

Put you at risk for fracturing the proximal femur.

Okay, so let us look at what you have to say about this.

And you think that their abductors i agree.

Totally.

We're looking at some boot heel muscles there that might function too.

Pull this greater tro cantor towards the ilium.

That would be abduction already.

Push comes to shove where might you find glorious medias in this ?

Muscle image.

Get all that nice trebek.

Euler bone in there.

Is helping to strengthen the neck of the femur that nice thick articular cartilage.

Okay.

Which one is glued ?

Ius medias.

And here you might have.

Think about what we looked at last time and claudius minimus deep to the media.

That's the clue in sorting this one out.

So this is glued ius medias this booty of minimus.

So let's talk about claudius medias.

We've got claudius medias here, as shown in an obligate bipeds.

Uh, over on the right, humans who walk upright and a chip who walks mostly in a quadra peed all fashion hand stand up and take steps on two legs, but mostly prefers a quadra.

People stand.

So let's look at the difference in size.

Bloodiest.

Maximus versus bloodiest meeting.

And and these two species.

So for us, we know bloodiest maximum is much larger than the meat and the hip.

Extensive torture is bloodiest.

Maximus is job.

The media's has a different job.

But given the orientation of the pelvis, you can see that glue deice media's is an important hip extent, sir.

In the chimp, going to pull that femur and you extension and the bloodiest maximus is smaller.

Is that a big deal ?

No, it's just a nick fact to get us on the way to answer this question.

So when lucy and the strength australia scene commented was found in the seventies, the question arose how big was the head of lucy's babies ?

And we talked about that, considering the size, the obstetrical demands on you pelvis.

But now we're going to think about.

Lucy's pelvis is giving evidence whether the australopithecus scenes were obligated by pad walkers.

So here's some bio mechanics for us to consider.

The blue triangle here is the hip joint location, and this red arrow is showing what the job of glue tedious medias is in us humans.

Goody ist medias is pulling the pelvis towards the femur and a way to keep it level when we're standing on one leg, gravity wants to pull downward on the pelvis when we're standing on one leg during walking and so glued.

Ius media's tugs on that ilium to level out the pelvis so our pelvis doesn't drop when we're standing on one leg in walking.

Bodyweight is tugging downward, trying to dad the hip joint, bloodiest media's pulls on the pelvis to try toe abducted to counter act gravity.

And that same thing is happening in lucy so we can look at the moment arm.

Actually, lucy had a bigger moment armed that we do in terms amplifying the effect of that claudius medias muscle force.

So taking the next step, then, if we look at this stresses in the proximal femur as a result of body weight and muscle force, we can see a couple of things.

Now.

You can't see that too well here, but because of thes forces due to gravity and ground reaction force, they're acting to compress this femur to bend it in such a way that this inferior aspect gets compressed.

So that it's trying to bend the femur so there's stretching up here and compression inferior.

When bloodiest media's acts, it's pushes the head of the femur into the asa tabula mme.

So the entire neck of the femur is getting compressions dress from this muscle force.

So when you add these two together, you get and extra dose oppression, stress on this inferior aspect and a minimum ization of the load on the superior aspect of the neck of the femur, because the tension counter acts the compression.

So the big load here is on this inferior aspect of the neck.

So we can look at the density and the thickness of the cortical bone in the neck of the femur as a result of bloodiest medias activity during by people loading to get a clue as to what might be be going on.

Let's start with us.

It turns out the inferior aspect of the neck of our femurs are really thick because of this characteristic loading of being upright walkers and thinner, more superior lee.

If you look at the champ, there's a very distribution, very different distribution in the thickness of cortical bone in the neck of the femur, louis looked like, so this was evidence to suggest that lucy wasn't upright walker.

Why does that matter ?

It matters just to give you a clue as to what the functional implications are of this glue deiced media's force during upright walking.

So this kind of an f y i situation.

But it turns out that muscle's really load bones.

We think that all the forces, our gravity and contact forces, but the fact that muscles are contracting and pulling on bones can really low.

And in response to that, there's a very characteristic pattern.

Cortical bones.

Couple couple slides here and show you this picture.

And what do we see here ?

Thick cortical bone inferior lee and much thinner cortical bone thickness superior early.

Just a hand about the biomechanics that might becoming ifyou're a movement science student and you're going to be taking movement science three thirty and and biomechanics of human movement, this is the kind of thing you might be discussing.

And for you by medical engineers, it's kind of second nature to your understanding of the world.

Okay, so leaving that behind here, we've got some views of the proximal femur.

And i had said earlier that you could tell anterior from post cheerier when your viewing the femur approximately.

Because you can see this structure of nine here is selenia aspira, which we couldn't see in that figure earlier and prominent view of the lesser tro capture here.

So these were the features that we're missing earlier when we were looking at the femur.

So number one here, when these different views, this i would say, isn't and to roll lateral view of the femur, and you can see number one there on the lateral aspect of the greater tro cantor.

Here's a piece from the post airier, and then in the superior of you, you can see one.

So one here is attachment of odious media to finish the story.

Moving on muscle three.

My soul.

What is must ?

Can you come with ?

Here.

There is plenty.

Oh, evidence of what muscle three might be given bony anatomy that is so poppaea in this image.

And i think we're going to have an unambiguous answer here.

Ah, ilie akkus.

Good job.

We're looking at thie iliac fossa.

Here's the ilium and the muscle that has origin on that iliac fossa is ill, aeacus.

Once in a while, things are easy.

So number six then would be the origin iliac kiss.

Really ?

I'm going to make you write that down.

Really ?

Okay, but you can go ahead and do that.

So what view of the koksal bonus this is a media over you, right ?

Looking at the ass a tabula so six.

Is it really found on that iliac fossa on this media view ?

And that's where il aeacus, your type ?

Big.

Nearly a kiss here.

And here we go.

Haley akkus, we have any mood indicators in here today.

No, not oblivious media's that what's wrong with julius menorahs ?

Why would that not be glue ?

These minimum gluteal muscles attach on the lateral aspect of the taliban, so as major, that can't be correct.

So, as major originate lumbar vertebra bodies now we have another view.

Where are we ?

What are muscles three and four.

And then when you know that, what is their insertion ?

Where are we ?

What view is this ?

Do you see anything there ?

Skeletal lee ?

That might tell you what.

Interior post here, here.

I'm going with anterior because these look like lumbar vertebrate bodies.

This looks like anterior superior iliac spine.

This looks like body of the peace.

So three and four are.

And then where did they insert ?

And and they insert not the greater tro cantor, but the lesser tro cantor.

This is iliac.

Hey, leo.

So, as and we're looking for the insertion.

So that's going to be the femur and the they grab on to the you can't see it here, but the lesser tro cantor.

So as major l.

Aeacus joining force hard to insert, i'm the lesser tro cantor.

And here you can fine that insertion.

Somewhere on this proximal femur.

Look at that capita ce right there.

Number twelve round ligament.

And you can see the opening in the bone.

They're for the blood test to nourish the head of the femur.

Okay, so i'm looking for a whole bunch of dots on number seven.

The lesser tro cantor nailed it.

Really a leo.

So as attach is on the lesser tro canter right there.

Okay, so speaking up the anterior superior iliac spy.

We're looking for that point to be the origin.

Have a couple of muscles.

And what might those must ?

These two months.

Anterior iliac spine to muscles.

One heads east one heads west, medial and lateral.

How did i know this was anterior superior iliac spine ?

Because i recognized the pubis as being anterior.

Greater cyanotic, not post cheerier ishii.

Um, post eerie er okay, so what have you decided you're going with good job, sartorius.

Tenser special left.

Last take.

I am.

Here is an image that i received from a student who had finished two thirty and that summer was traveling in germany and excitedly sent me this picture because of what they observed looking at it.

So what was it that that student was excited about observing and art ?

Is he looking at itself ?

Probably not.

Okay.

Um, so let's see what you've got.

You are fight.

Sartorius is one of them.

And tfl.

There we go.

There we go.

It's our tourist.

Intense surf, asha.

A lot lately.

Whenever tfl.

Both of those muscles you just told me originated here on the anterior superior iliac one.

Sartorius is superficial and heads immediately.

Tfl is superficial on heads laterally.

Somebody suggested rectus femoris.

This is rectus memories kidding straight.

Down the anterior thigh.

Superficially.

What else can we observe ?

Perhaps this individual needs to do a few more sit ups.

We're not seeing much definition there in that abdominal wall musculature.

Anything we can identify here that might be on that exam next week.

Nsi pectorals, major.

Artfully done.

Perhaps not entirely anatomically correct.

It looks like the pectoral is major originating on the ribs.

But we know it actually originates here on the sternal portion.

This is closer to the club.

Vehicular portion of pectoral major.

We conceal it, dismiss door side forming the two borders of the ax illa or the armpit.

We can see biceps breaky i we can see a bit of cork.

Oh, breaking alice.

And this might be triceps.

Long head over here, we can see deltoid done up pretty darn well.

Anterior middle portions of deltoid.

Any idea what this muscle might be ?

Arising from lateral humerus and inserting on the looks like radio side of the forearm.

What might that be ?

Break your radio, alice.

We've got a sternal clyde o master.

Okay.

I guess that's about all we can really do.

The origin of rectus ephemera ce any clue where that muscle attach is to this bone ?

We just saw where rectus femoris where its belly was found superficially on the anterior five.

Where does it have origin on the koksal bone ?

All right.

Here we go.

Anterior in airier iliac spine.

But boom right there.

Good job.

Identify the muscle.

It must be muscle seven that we're identifying.

Let's go here's muscle seven.

Can you say what this is ?

Anti air, post area, any pony landmarks ?

Once you're oriented, then you're ready to start thinking about muscles.

Don't jump the gun, do all the steps that are necessary.

So you don't identify tena's a hamstring because they were not looking post airier.

So working anymore.

Okay.

Yes, tfl.

And here, superior iliac spine.

We've been talking a lot this morning about thes two mussels that are attaching in that originating in that area.

Here's the pubis.

This muscle number ten must be heading immediately.

That would be sartorius.

And also what's missing here is the tendon of insertion tfl.

The band has been cut away.

So muscles three four and five three is the muscle you just did.

Fire three is tense.

Professional latte four is starting me sartorius heading immediately.

And five is rectus family having origin inferior two tfl in sartorius.

And what do all of these muscles do ?

This black dot as a hint is where the axis of rotation would years the hip joint moving medial in a medial lateral orientation.

These muscles are all and here to that hip joint access, which tells us that all of these muscles our flex hours.

And there's everything labeled for okay, no rotation, always the most difficult function to sort out which of these muscles is a medial rotation and notice i'm haven't even identified them.

So you're just looking at attachments and trying to sort out what might be a rotator here.

This of rotation.

Where is that head of the femur and the asa ?

Tabula mme.

Somewhere in this vicinity and the axis of rotation is goingto be superior.

Teo inferior.

Okay, so let's see what you got.

Do you have any idea ?

Yep.

It's either one or four.

I agree.

Totally.

It's either one or four.

And because one is tfl force are tourists.

We know they have some rotation function.

So what does sartorius, d'oh, flex abduct and latterly wrote.

This is ladder over rotation of the female, so it's not for its number.

Tfl is the medial rotator because you know, sartorius is not because you've done this move and figured out that when you sit cross legged, it is lateral rotation.

Because i know you all have done that.

Okay, so what we're looking at here is the pelvis of a two thirty student who has a condition called hip dysplasia.

And, um, this is what it took to repair it.

So hip dysplasia, there's some instability.

Lack of coverage of the ephemeral head in the ass.

A tabula.

So in order to repair this condition, a pelvic osteo tomy is performed.

That means that the koksal bone no.

And the fragments are displaced and rotated in order to build this acid tabular, uh, covering and re oriented.

And you can see how massive and invasive that surgery is.

If we look in a lateral few here, you can see a bit of a lesion here.

We're kind of a horizontal line, ian.

Where that pelvis, uh, how the fragments were re oriented in these long screws holding the's pieces in place.

This's a young, healthy individual you can.

Just with this issue.

Okay, so let's consider what muscles you what muscles you might have study that might be acted in terms of their origin or insertion as a result of this percy in chair and through the ilium and bring stuff moving the bone fragments around.

Which muscles do you think might get it by that surgery ?

So do you think might be attached ?

Ilium ?

So as bloodiest medias tfl all the goodies media zaliukas, pectin, ius, sartorius.

There's a whole host of muscles that might be affected here.

Well, let's look at how a bio mechanistic might have approached this surgery.

So this was a study done.

Damn in the mind.

Where the phd student at the time as the question teo, different surgical approaches to this osteo outta me.

Why, why does sometimes what is this ?

Some patients sometimes have a limp afterwards.

Why are they sometimes successful ?

Might it be related to the actual surgical paramus hers.

So in the simulation study, they characterized what options the surgeon might have.

You can see the ost iata me up there where the cut is made.

So the surgeon can make a choice of the angle of this cut.

How much distal or inferior fragment is displaced immediately.

And then how much ?

That inferior fragment is rotated that's whatthe surgeon has to decide when putting the screws in to fix it into a new place.

So knowing that this particular study focused on hip abductor torque, since we know that the hip abductor muscles are so important in maintaining the pelvis, um, during walking and here, the original or health.

Yeah.

And here is a post surgery hip in terms of the ability abductor muscles to generate torque.

So with this set of parameters, looks like you'd probably have a good outcome with this set of surgical parameters.

Maybe not such a good outcome in terms of the effect of these parameters on hip muscle strength.

So what we notice here what's most different ?

Well, what's most different is this angle up, horizontal cut or more angled cut.

So it looks like the more horizontal kind is most effective.

And here is now that, um, those two techniques with the best outcome technique and the worst outcome technique in the simulation study resulted.

So it looks like the moment arm of claudius media, isn't it money with either surgical technique and that's probably what the surgeons were trying to do is to spare the moment are.

But now let's look at what happens to force that second surgical technique changes where the optimal length odious media's here so that the muscle is too short during standing to generate adequate force.

And so even though the moment moment arm is fine, the muscle is disadvantaged in terms of how long it is right at the joint angle, where you need to produce toward it makes it shorter, right ?

Extra centimeter and a half.

And so that really compromise the ability claudius meetings to make abdo.

Okay, so anyway, if you're us, if you're planning to be an orthopedic surgeon, this is the kind of thing you're gonna have to be thinking about if you because you will be asked to do surgeries to repair hip dysplasia.

Young, otherwise healthy individuals.

You have this structural problem with the pelvis.

It needs to be fixed.

Is that going to be on the test ?

No, but it sure is interesting, is it not ?

Okay, so let's go back to this.

Picture this frontal plane section through the hip choi and think about what muscles twelve and thirteen might be.

We're going to leave the abductors and the flexors alone, and we're going to start looking at some other muscles now.

Okay.

Dance at where these two muscles might attach, but you can't really either their origin or insertion.

So you really think about just the relationship ?

Where are these muscles ?

With respect to this hip joint and other muscles and when you have done that, you are going to just hide that the muscles in that area being on the can't hint medial side hip joint might in fact be abductor's good work opposite side of the joint from the abductors.

Lateral hell, you're the ad doctors.

Okay, so let's work on these abductors.

Which one of them originates in twenty five.

So what is twenty five ?

What is that bony land mark ?

What bone is that ?

And it looks like there's one muscle attaching tio and only one muscle.

What might that be ?

And you have decided that it is the one and only pectin.

Ius.

Yes, because this is thies superior pubic ramos.

And that is the home of only one of the adductor muscles.

Twenty five.

That's pectin.

Ian.

That's the easy one.

So say where might ten years be sure ?

Bony landmarks, anyone.

All right.

Here we go.

Superior.

Pubic ramos.

There's pectin.

Ius good.

Already named these muscles.

Guessing you confined pectin, ius.

But what are those other two ?

That's the person next to you, okay ?

Here we go.

No.

Have i labeled ?

No.

So let's go back and i will tell you.

Number one here.

Catania's number three is priscilla's because pubis medial five.

To the tibia.

Number three is merciless.

Can war what ?

Is a two is the ad doctor.

Any idea where ?

Adductor.

Magnus ?

Here on the post eerie, er, distal femur.

Changing the tune a little bit toe adductor, magnus.

Okay.

And of course, you have selected the abductor.

Tuber cole ?

Yes.

Excellent work now.

Maybe you were thinking.

Is this the doctor ?

Tuber ?

Col ors thiss the adductor tuber call and they don't look that different.

So what could you have used us ?

A clue.

Where is this femur ?

Angling ?

It's angling, literally.

The femur ankles immediately, distantly.

So you could have used that as a clue to figure out the side with media.

Describe the function, this muscle of the hit well.

What is that muscle ?

It's very big.

Inserts on the linear.

Aspira also inserts on the adductor to brickle.

So we're likely talking about adductor magnus here.

So what is it that adductor magnus does ?

And, of course, there's one very easy answer.

And then there's another answer that is a little bit more complicated.

I mentioned before that this space this whole this hiatus in the ad, dr magnus insertions add dr hiatus enabled vessels to pass from and here to post your thigh and you can see them drawn in to the image here.

Artery and vein passing through that adductor hiatus.

Okay, so you have all said abduction and you and some have said flexion.

Some of set extension.

Some have said both both.

So i actually would recommend this answer.

Abduction, flexion and extension.

Because depending on whether you're talking about the anterior most fibers of adductor magnus, they can assist reflection.

The post year in most fibers assist with extension.

So it's complicated in terms of its sagittal plane function, unambiguous in its frontal plane function as an abductor.

So click on the insertion of muscles with add doctor in their name where are we ?

Must be the femur is this anterior or post ear ear femur got a great big a great big lesser tro cantor looking at you.

You've got the linear asprilla looking at you.

So this is going to be the post steer your femur.

So where do the abductors in, sir ?

With respect.

Two posterior femur.

Here we go.

Alinea, aspirin.

Anywhere you like.

Definitely not.

The lester tro cantor.

And this this bar could have gone up higher.

So linear astra well, that's the insertion of adductor longest.

Where is its origin ?

Any clue where adductor magnus might attack ?

To the cock sailboat.

If you couldn't get click on the correct bone.

That would be great.

Still a week, so you might know, might need to know a little bit more than okay, so you have all clicked on the pubis.

I hope many, many clicked on the pubis.

Good work.

And in fact, the longest has origin right here on the body.

That's the detail.

But if you're if you're thinking pubis, good work.

Okay, which two muscles originate here ?

So we've found that this is add dr long right here.

We just did that work.

Previously, we've seen me.

Having origin here.

What muscles have origin now on the cheerier pubic ray vis ?

And it comes down to one of two of these.

Okay, more people are waking up.

All right, so here we go.

And which is it gonna be ?

This one or this one ?

He's the most popular.

Could be this one to definitely not this one because we've talked about okay, so the second most popular answered gets it.

It's a hard question because we haven't really looked at detail yet.

But what do we know about adductor magnus ?

That might steer us away from answer b adductor.

Magnus partly is an extensive, so it's gonna have origin very post eer ee err on this koksal bone.

It's actually gonna have origin all the way.

Post airier, toothy ishii.

Um, and if we look here, neither of these two muscles reach all the way posterior to the issue.

Speaking of the issue where hamstrings julia on this constable.

The ham ease our post airier.

Feeling a little bit like the parent who curses in front of the children but then doesn't let the kids curse when i say things like hammy, if you ever said ham, ease on your assignment.

That's not anytime.

A language.

Right ?

So hamstrings.

Okay, so where do they attack ?

Good work.

I'm liking this because this is issue all too ferocity.

How would you know that ?

The hamstrings have a limited here.

So this is if you clicked here.

You're actual answers up here.

Very fine detail.

Okay, so let's talk about what ?

That thing wass that some of you clicked on that is issued to ferocity.

But wasn't hamstrings.

That is the origin of adductor.

Magnus adductor.

Magnus.

Gus has a broad origin.

Inferior pubic ramos.

Is she, um, all the way to the issue to ferocity.

Hamstrings have a discreet that is small area of origin on the issue of ferocity.

Okay, number of the day.

Pine minus one.

Two.

Apply minus one and a whole bunch of digits to make it two.

All right ?

Oh, cross section what is this muscle ?

And it's the on ly muscle not labeled.

This image was and one of the articles that one of you reviewed.

And i saw this image.

And i thought, where i'm gonna grab that lecture, because that's really okay.

So you've come up with some answers.

But let's talk about this.

Everything's labeled beautifully here, so let's get oriented because it's labeled.

I'm seeing rectus memories.

So this must be anterior because we know rectus femoris is anterior medial superficial.

Now what's medial lateral here ?

Well, i see fastest ladder alice.

That's a clue.

It's lateral, but also sartorius is medial and fastest media.

Alice is medial.

We haven't gotten to those muscles yet.

I apologize.

Rectus femoris here's sartorius.

So that's medial and superficial.

Although we do have quite a bit of adipose tissue here gristle lis is medial, as we might expect the abductors to be.

Here are our hamstring semi member and also semi tendon noses, biceps memories, long head.

There's the short head, which we haven't talked about.

So what is his great big medio ?

Close to the hamstrings, asshole, and you've decided that it is.

Adductor.

Magnus, good job.

Okay.

We don't really know which abductor.

Because we don't really know how distal we are in this cross section.

Bye.

Yeah, so that's kind of advance.

But anyway, an ad doctor is a good guess for this muscle right here.

Look at this beautiful dissection.

What are we looking at here ?

This is a sagittal section we can see.

Uh, l five here.

The body of l five.

That nice trebek.

Euler boned thick interview for tea.

Brel disc.

Here's the sacred, the sacred prominent ori.

Here's some post airier musculature.

We're looking at the medial aspect.

No pelvis.

Once it's been cleaned out, what do you suppose this muscle might be ?

Right here ?

Does that look like where you might expect to find the ob traitor for raymond ?

So this is going to be one of the ob to reiter muscles.

This is likely.

Some of the sixty bilateral rotator sze.

What muscle is this ?

Having origin on the anterior aspect of the lumbar vertebra body.

So ask iliac kiss.

Bloodiest.

Maximus.

Here's the pubis.

So that gets this down.

Teo, where might adductor magnus ?

Really hard.

Yeah, one of these too.

Totally agree.

And it's all the way posted here.

Here, here.

This would have fit the bill pubis reaching posterior towards the toothy issue.

Really ?

Tell from what you know already.

This it turns out this is the answer.

If you answer this, you're definitely thinking in the right direction.

This is really hearts will never be on exam, but it's giving you practice thinking about what these muscles might be.

So what ?

This muscle, if it's not adductor magnus, what might it be ?

What were those two muscles that we saw attaching on the in theory pubic ramus ?

Adductor breathless.

And priscilla's of those two.

What might it be ?

No, it looks like it's going to be long.

Fei bird heading towards the tibia.

So is actually priscilla.

Very difficult question.

What is this muscle ?

I would proceed.

Deduction.

What is ?

Okay, here we go.

Good hamstrings.

Here's lateral over here because there's the it banda sea glued ius media heading latterly.

So this is the lateral side of the knee.

So i know that this muscle must be the lateral hamstring.

There's biceps memories, long head here's semi tendon noses with its tenderness, superficial insertion and semi membreno sis.

Deep to it, we just saw health.

How close proximity adductor magnus origin was with respect to the hamstrings.

Now the other option was priscilla's.

But we know that priscilla's is long and inserts on the tibia, which you can kind of guess by looking at its path here.

So good work and there's everything labeled for you.

What function do these muscles share ?

One.

And i think we're getting close to the end here.

Bloodiest.

Maximus hamstring.

Which hamstring is this lateral side ?

There's an insertion on the head of the fibula, so that tells us this is biceps amorous.

The lateral hamstring elio tibial band muscles are extensive hours.

They are post ear e er toothy axis rotation in the sagittal plane.

The dealio tibial band or a leo tibial track that inserts on the lateral aspect of the proximal tibia.

What two muscles insert here ?

Do i have a question or is this rhetorical ?

It is not rhetorical.

What ?

Two muscles insert via the dealio.

Tippy yl band.

You could look at them here or you can remember.

Okay.

And oh, you're still working two months.

One two.

And you have typed in, of course, galoot, ius, maximus and tfl.

Good.

Where do those sixty lateral rotate ear's in search ?

And a clue.

Proximal distal.

Medial lateral.

Okay.

Right there.

I'm gonna take the box off for a moment.

So we know that the gluteal muscles medias and minimus are attaching on the lateral aspect of the greater tro cantor.

The six deep lateral row taters are hurting on the medial aspect of the greater can't.

I'm happy with greater tro cantor proximal femur.

Okay.

And here they are.

So what ?

What are we looking at here ?

I'm going to help you with this because it's not obvious.

Lucius maximus has been dissected away as a swell as gladiators, media and the minimus.

So we're looking at sixty lateral rotate er's here.

This is a deep dissection.

Post ear e er, hip joint.

Here are our sixty lateral rotator.

And can you identify them in order here ?

What's to what's eight ?

Thie superior and inferior.

Okay, so while you're thinking, let's look at this big white thing here.

This is the cyanotic nerve.

It's really large.

Some of you will come across the cyanotic nerve in your reading.

Anybody here ever gotten a shot in the butt ?

Well, yeah, the shot nurse is avoiding getting near the cyanotic nerve and in fact, is injecting whatever the substances intra muscular, early to avoid in the gluteal muscles, avoiding contact with the cyanotic nerve here.

So this is a bundling of nerve roots from the lumbar sacral region that are going to innovate muscles in the lower extremities.

Okay, so where are we now ?

With your ordering of muscles ?

Eight seems to be a big answer.

And it was the correct one, although it wasn't the most popular one.

So let's identify them.

But they're really identified here.

No, i'm gonna identify them for you.

Two is pure reformists.

Eight is quad rated memories.

The two bordering muscles three and four are the gemelli.

Three is superior come alice, for his inferior carmela's.

In between the two come, alice muscles is six operator in turness, and then we see the operator externals tendon at seven.

We saw the schematically last time here were actually looking at a dissection showing all right.

The bloodiest minimus can we find glutinous minimus in this dissection ?

It's also quite deep.

Here are five of the six deep lateral rotator.

Is that you just identified here's glue deiced maximus cut and reflected back so where is blue tia's minimus in this mess oh muscles hamstrings and cut away here.

Okay, who won't get distracted ?

He this is pure reformists.

This pear shaped muscle is pure for ms here's glued, ius minimus deep to the medias and most anterior.

That was a hard question.

And can you find quadrant is famous in this picture now that you know where pure for mrs it might help you get oriented with regards to identifying squadre tous memories not quadriceps memories, but squadre tous memories.

The most inferior of the sixty lateral row taters.

All right, so you have done really good work today.

Spend hard working on those abductor's in particular the origins of those muscles.

But you did really good work this morning.

So this is the end of the material is going to be on exam three.

So on monday, i'll start working with knee and ankle muscles, but they won't be on the exam until the last day of class.

So you can just work with these muscles over the weekend.

Every day.

Please work with them every day.

Please.

There's no such thing as cramming.

If you really want to learn anatomy and i'll see you in office hours, i'll see you in my email q or i'll see you in an appointment between now and monday, e.