Good morning everyone.

I was shocked when i woke up yesterday morning, and the radio said it was a different time than my clock had completely forgot that it was daylight savings time, but now i am in sync with the rest of the world.

Although my body is lagging a bit a little hard to get out of bed this morning, i trust you're experiencing the same thing anyway.

Here we go.

Another giant boulis of muscles is about to descend on you.

We're going to move distantly in the upper extremity and look the muscles that control the elbow wrist and fingers.

So, uh not only that, but the muscles that control super nation and pro nation we will discuss the one muscle group that we have to consider is something called the anatomical snuff box from the nineteenth century gentlemanly the placing of snuff in the anatomical snuff box.

But other than that, we have lots of muscles on their own to consider.

So let's jump in and start learning them.

So the upper extremity is highly mobile, so we're going to need lots of groups of muscles to control.

Ah, flexion and extension we have flexion extension at the wrist and ulnar and radial deviation flexion of the fingers.

We are not going to talk about the muscles that control ab and abduction of the fingers because those have origin and insertion just in the hand itself.

The so called intrinsic hand muscles, so i will leave those to more advanced anatomy courses.

But for the thumb, we will talk about the muscles that ab and add or abduct at least the thumb.

We also need to find the super naders and pro natures, and let's jump in and start doing that and here in post your muscles in the upper arm flex and extend the elbow.

So we'll find the muscle bella bellies for the flex sirs and extensive, er's of the elbow where we would expect that you already know these muscles biceps, breaky i and triceps breaking i so we won't have too many others to discuss their listed for you.

Here, you can see a theme muscles that are found in that upper arm.

Have that word in them.

Breaking for the break your portion of the yeah, the breaking him is thie upper arm and latin so we have biceps breaking i breaky alice break eoe radio alice and then try seps breaky eye and one orphan muscle that doesn't have break you break you in the title and well find and cone ius biceps breaking.

I we've already talked about the details of origin and insertion, but we have not yet talked about the consequences of that insertion on the radius with regards to emotions.

The more distal upper extremity and so we're now going to add elbow flexion to the list of functions for biceps breaking i and because it's attached to the radius, it is a super nater.

It pulls that radio tube ferocity anterior early resulting in super nation of the forearm.

When you do a chin up, you typically to prefer to do that in a super nated position rather than a pro nated position.

That is so you can take advantage biceps.

Breaking i muscle force length curve to help you flix your elbow.

So let's check out his biceps.

We've seen it before in terms of flexion of the shoulder.

Now we're seeing his biceps bulge with elbow flexion notice i'm saying biceps even when i'm looking at a one of his arms because there is no such thing as a bicep.

It always has an s now we'll look at his biceps soup in aiding his forearm lilia look att that biceps bulge when he super nate's so now going to ask you a question about breaking alice can you find that muscle ?

You might have to do this by deduction some of the other muscles that are shown in this i figure we've already learned about so can you find those muscles and then sort out by deduction which one there must be breaking alice look at where they attach.

Even if you don't know the names of these muscles yet based on their attachments.

Might they have a function at the shoulder ?

If so, we've already discussed that open that yes, i did good good job.

We're not talking to anybody to help us sort this out.

Okay, here we go and oh, look atyou awake ones you've chosen one as breaky alice even if you knew nothing the only muscle that does not cross the glen oh, hugh meral joint and have a function there is muscle number one that's breaking alice so we're looking at a muscle that originates on the anterior distal humerus and inserts on thiss looks like it's not the radius because there's the head of the radius and the radio tube rosti.

So this breaking alice muscle must insert on the owner.

Muscle three.

Origin on anterior scapula insertion on anterior humor's very approximately.

That's what sub scapular aris muscle too cora coid process to break your bone here the humorous cora co break callis number two alrighty good you agree with me and there's everything labeled for you.

So formally here's breaky alice and tero distal humerus we talked about for its origin inserting on the own up.

It has no super nation pronation function because it does not attached to the radius.

You must attack to the radius if you're going to super nater pro nate.

So it inserts near biceps breaky i but on the phone so it doesn't share that function at the proximal radio owner.

Joint with biceps breaking and let's look at these muscles functioning.

So what have we got here ?

Elbow flexes shortening with elbow flexion so there's biceps and deep to it.

Breaky alice turning green when the elbow shortens.

In fact, if you place your fingers on either side of your biceps, tendon and press, you will be touching your break or pal painting.

You're breaking alice muscle two biceps breaking.

One more break your radio alice.

We know its attachments from its name break.

Ill humorous radio alice radius.

It attached his distantly on the style oid process of the radius.

My grandfather had a great big one of these because he was a carpenter he built houses without power tools, so his use of a hammer made a very, very big break your radio.

Alice he also, uh was missing the distal phalanx of his thumb on his left hand from a sighing accident.

Okay, so break your radio.

Alice also flexes the elbow because it past his anterior to it, and there's break your radio alice lateral style lateral epic con dial of the humerus to the sty void process of the radius break your radios.

That's it for the elbow flex, er's biceps breaking i assisted by breaking alice and then the brake yo radio alice comes into play as well.

If we look distantly the story's even simpler triceps break.

The eye is where most of our extensive tork comes from it, the elbow.

But there's little tiny and cone ius that also can help, and there's leonardo's picture of the flex sirs.

This is interesting which what muscle is this.

That is breaking alice a little bit stylized.

I would say, and then here's biceps break.

Yeah, you can almost peak at the two heads there here's break eoe radio alice and then we have a post area of you here and what is shown really nicely.

R.

Two heads of the triceps.

Here's the long head and the one that that looks most visible from this view is one of the two new heads we're going to talk about.

This is the lateral head of triceps and this little diagonal going muscle is an konia ce.

You can see break eoe radio alice here that's the view that was very prominent in my grandfather.

Okay, so where is long head of triceps breaky ?

I this is the head of triceps that we already know because this is the head that functions at the glen.

Oh, hugh meral joint as an extent sir any recollection of the long head from last time.

And here we go.

Okay, so last time, we talked about how the long head braids between terry's major and terry's minor you don't remember that relationship you can look here this head of triceps seems to be attaching to the humerus itself.

So it's not going to a function at the glen.

Oh, hugh meral joint it all because it doesn't attach to the scapula so that can't be the long head all righty so that head that some people clicked on in the last image is thiss question, mark muscle.

And that's what we're going to talk about now.

Here's the long head braiding between the two terrys major and here's a picture of antonius that we'll talk about in a moment.

So if you were to name this muscle, what would you call it ?

What what would you give the name of this head of triceps ?

Let's see if anyone has any creativity out there this morning, or if it's just to monday early ish to come up with something and you have lateral head.

Oh, definitely not the biceps because that is and anterior never never never to use the word tricep without an s on the end lateral head.

Okay, um never without the yes okay lateral had here we go triceps breaking.

I in fact, many of you just identified the lateral head and we're going to see that when you extend against resistance, it's your lateral head that pops out their superficially proximal poster a lateral.

The medial head attach is a little bit more deeply, and it's deep, too long head, which is why we don't see it in that more superficial to section.

And of course, we already know triceps all heads all heads all heads show the same insertion on the lectern on processes.

Everything different here it are their origins and triceps all of them extend the elbow because of this insertion on the oh not posterior, lee.

So this is the view that we have been looking at too superficial view where we have triceps.

Long head braiding between those terry's muscles to attach on the scapula infor planetoid to pickle there, and we have to cut away the lateral head to look deep to see.

The medial had attaching more immediately on the post cheerier humorous, and there's a bear strip of humorous between those two origins of lateral and medial head and a nerve passes right through there.

Yeah, and there could be some issues with compression that nerve against the bone.

Is it of the radial nerve as it passes through that space ?

Okay, so morning meet view.

Let's get oriented so that we can make sense of what we're looking at this is a left upper arm post ear e er.

Lateral.

Here medial here so here's the deltoid attaching on latterly on the deltoid tuba ross iti and distal to that is triceps.

Breaking i lateral head and here's the medial head we've pulled away the long head to take a at the medial head here.

And this structure is that radio nerve that i was just talking about passing between lateral and medial.

Heads of triceps breaking out.

And let's look at his triceps.

There's the lateral head bulging right there look for that in the mirror.

When you get home roll up that short sleeve, extend your elbow against resistance and appreciate your lateral triceps.

Okay, last extensive and cone ius a little one taking origin from the humerus lateral epa con dial so we've seen that the break yo radio alice takes origin mohr approximately just above that super on the super consular ridge just superior.

So antonius is grabbing onto the ladder leper con tile.

But this time running post eary early to attach.

Also on the proximal ona post your yearly, and it adds in to extensive torque at the elbow.

Now, here's something that's going to look confusing to you when you're in the lab and you're looking at bare bones with the origins and insertions painted on them, you're going to see a little tiny speck of paint on that elektra non process at a big patch of paint for the insertion of the antonius.

Because of the relative size of these insertions, you're going to think the big one must be the big muscle.

Try sips, but no triceps is a very discreet insertion small insertion on that electrode on process and antonius has a much broader one, and you can see that it's kind of a triangular shaped muscle with this broad insertion and his and cone ius.

We're going to see bulging there lateral side of his forearm.

So let's look at these elbow extensive hours.

Now we can identify all of them because we know about antonia's so they're all going to turn green with elbow extension.

The two heads of triceps that we can see and antonius they're all going to turn green with extension.

The elbow here's another superficial dissection of the upper arm.

Let's get oriented anterior is this side this is ah! I'm.

Sorry, it's a left shoulder lateral view, so this is interior.

Here's deltoid anterior deltoid attaching on the clavicle middle deltoid on the chrome in and then post ear ear fibers traveling from the spine of the scapula.

All of those deltoid portions are attaching at the deltoid to veracity here ladder role, mid humerus.

Here's the bit of pectoral alice major reaching over to insert on one of the lips of the inter tubercular group right now in your head.

Can you tell me which one lateral or media lateral good job ?

Biceps breaky i guard deep to biceps breaking i is this breaking alice muscle and then here is break eoe radio alice arising from the lateral super condom leverage post e really we see the triceps so that's the order of musculature from anterior to lateral to post ear ear on the upper arm just under the skin superficial dissection.

Okay, so that was the easy part.

Now we're going to move into the four where there are lots and lots of muscles.

That's where we're going to find muscles that control the risk and the muscles that control the extrinsic muscles.

That control, uh the fingers in the thumb so as you might guess and teary early if something that's attaching anteria lee shortens it's going to be involved in inflections, so the story is the same anterior reflection anterior reflection anterior reflection.

So like the back where muscles were, uh organized in superficial intermediate and deep layers in the forearm, we're going to divide up the muscles into a superficial compartment and a deep compartment.

So in this superficial compartment, we find flexes of the wrist another terry's muscle round.

But this one is controlling pro nation and something called paul maris.

Longest, it must have something to do with the palm of the hand deep to that, we're going to find the digit oram's the flexors of the digits and a flexor of this policy's thing.

That's the thought the fancy latin name for the thumb and we'll find another pro nater.

So that's our job ?

What makes the job a little bit easier is that the's four muscles and the proximal comps excuse me in the more superficial layer all have a common origin medial epic con dial of the humerus.

Then they go from there and have different insertions.

So a good model for these muscles, but the palm of your hand on your medial epic con dial and then reach for different insertions with your fingers.

And you can describe these muscles.

We should call this the common flexor tendon for these muscles pro nater terry's index finger reaches towards thie lateral radius and pulls it into pro nation.

All right where does it insert ?

All right here we go.

You were listening.

I just told you it was the radius.

But even if you weren't, consider this what happens in pro nation and super nation the radius moves.

Therefore, every muscle that has a job of pro nation or super nation will insert on the radius by definition.

So here's a case where understanding the function can help you avoid a task of memorization.

If your function is pro nation of super nation, you know it's going to attach to the radius.

It's going to insert on the radius pro nater.

Terry's originates from the media leper con dial picks up a little bit of origin on the ulna and inserts on the radius.

In fact, the middle lateral radius it prone aids due to its insertion on the radius.

And because it does cross the elbow joint is going to assist a little bit with elbow flexion.

What does that mean assist with alba reflection ?

Isn't an opal flexor or not ?

Yes, it is a noble flex her, but it does not have a very big moment arm, so it's much less important in terms of the amount flex her tor.

It can generate it the elbow, so we say it assists with.

If your life depended on it, you would root recruit prone ater terry's to help out, but it's only going to be an incremental addition to that total amount elbow torque that you're going to generate.

That's what the word assist means it does flex, but not so important.

So let's look at his pro nater terry's in action.

There's the path and prone aiding the forearm thank you very much mr muscle god now moving on click where you think flex sir carpi radio alice inserts flex.

Sir carpi, radio alice insert.

Here i'm asking to think about the function suggested by the name of that muscle and clues to where you might find.

It also based on its name, so good job.

Everybody who clicked on something that wasn't the radius or the only it cannot flex that karpis the wrist bones unless it inserts.

Not on the radius.

If it inserts on the radius, it doesn't reach the wrist so it can't function there.

And in fact, it spans all of these carpools and inserts here.

Flexor carpi radio alice takes origin from that medial epic conned aisle of the humerus common flexor tendon and inserts on the base of the second and third metacarpals so completely skips the car pools.

And attach is distal to them on the base of metacarpals.

In fact, two and three.

What what's important about two and three well, they're over towards the radio side of the risk.

Now, if your flexor carpi, radio alice and your job and your name says you're on the radio side of the wrist.

Why would you not insert on the base of the first metacarpal ?

That's the one that's the most radio of all the metacarpals.

Why would you not attach there ?

Well, if you did and you shortened what would happen some abduction you'd pull your first metacarpal into abduction.

Because that joint is special for our thumbs, we want to reach to the base of the second and third because that karp oh, metacarpal joints those carpal metacarpal joints our have more limited mobility.

So instead of getting motion at the carpal metacarpal joint like you do you with the first you get motion of the risk and radio deviation when it shortens.

Not only is that muscle gonna flex the risk, but it's going to pull the wrist towards the radio side radio deviated so we'll see what we have a little movie.

He's calling radio deviation abduction.

The wrist already common flexor tendon, perone, ater terry's here's flexor carpi radio alice traveling to the base of the second and third metacarpals you might have noticed in that video a band connective tissue spanning.

The distal anterior forearm trans verse lee that's the flexor retin acura, um it's holding down tethering all of these flexors that they don't pop out when you flex your wrist.

We'll see a demo here of his lovely job of radio, deviation and flexion the wrist.

Thank you flexor carpi radio alice now here's a muscle palmeiras longest same origin common flexor tendon medial epic con tile but it inserts not into a bone, but in something called the palmer appa neurosis, the you know napper neurosis is a flat flattened connective tissue structure.

So it inserts into that tough pasha in the palm of your and by so doing that, it pulls that fashion towards the medial, eh ?

Pecan dial, which is going to assist with wrist flexion now what is interesting and fun dare, i say fun about palmeiras.

Longest is that we don't all have them.

In fact, i have one in one forearm and i'm missing it in the other forearm, so we're going to check to see who's got them in here.

Here's paul maris longest, and you can see how it's going to be easy to find because it can lay anterior to that flexor red vernacular, which means it's going to pop out.

So let's look at hiss.

Look at how it pops right out there.

Okay, so here's how you can check.

We have to find where actually be looking for two tendons flexor carpi radio alice fc are and palmeiras songs, and you can see in the top fiction picture if you flex.

If you flex and adductor thumb and resist risk flexion, the's tenants will pop out in my left wrist.

I have two attendants that aiken palpate easily, but in my right i only have one so i'm missing palmeiras longest in my right wrist.

How we doing out there.

Well, let's find out.

Let's see what our two thirty population looks like if you if you're having a hard time finding these muscles, you sure you can.

Resist try to flex your wrist against resistance.

Okay, so let's see how we're doing okay, so we have some people like me in here.

Some asymmetrical forearms, but looks like we have two thirds double representation of palmeiras longest and another third that is one or the other.

Someone could do a literature review on this and find out what the population norm is out there sweet, if we know that okay.

Pro nater terry's flexor carpi radio alice paul meris longest and now we're looking for number four in the superficial group and of course we need a flexor carpi all nerys.

So that's who's up next common origin and inserting on the piss a form both over there and picks up a bit of the base of the fifth metacarpal.

Wrist flexion like extensive carpi, radio alice excuse me like flexor carpi radios but owner deviation because it's inserting on the ulnar side of the wrist over there by the piss of form, but on the illness side.

So let's right.

That would be ulnar deviation so there it is identified for you pro nater, terry's flexor carpi radio alice palmeiras longest flexor carpi all nerys nice and tight.

I know it's anterior because there's a piss of form.

I'm looking at ulnar, deviation and radio deviation, and you can see that flexor carpi, l nerys and flexor carpi radio alice are turning green opposite to each other because they're antagonised ce in the frontal plane that is with respect to ulnar and radial deviation.

Okay, click on the landmark where the superficial wrist flex our muscles have origin.

Superficial.

That's the group we're just talking about wrist flexor muscles have origin.

Flexor muscles.

You're looking for anterior view and you are looking for medial.

And some of you found it.

Origin.

Flexes anterior medial humorous really.

Let the words help you.

So let's go deep and finish this job or looking for flexes of the fingers, the thumb and another pro nater and looks like we have superficial and profound or deep finger flexors number of the day someone suggested number.

Q and it is seventeen.

Thank you very much here we go looking forward to march seventeen good work.

Thank you mr.

Seventeen flex or did you ditch it ?

Or um superficial ?

What does this tell us ?

It's a flex er must be interior.

We know where it has to insert somewhere on the digits because that's its job reflects the digits, and it's more superficial than the other one so ex orjan again from that medial side medial epa con dial of the humerus.

But also has some origin on the online radius.

So picking up origin lots of places.

But on that medial side of the humerus as we've come to expect middle phalanx of the four fingers so look at your fingers look find the middle phalanx and think about what this muscle does and does not do it conflicts the wrist it conflicts the metacarpal fail and guille joint it conflicts the proximal interfet land deal joint but because it doesn't reach all the way to the distal phalanx it has no function at that distal interval angio joint p i p proximal interval angio joint is what this one does.

That must be me how is that me ?

I don't know how that is me i'm sorry, maybe all mute until otherwise needed all right.

And you can see that he's not flexing his prop his distal inter flan.

She'll joint okay in contrast flexor, digit or um profundis, deep profound reaches all the way to the distal phil and cheese up those four fingers.

So now it can flex the d i p joint the little tips of your fingers.

An interesting question is how does it get there without bumping into the flexor digit or um super fishy alice insertion on the middle phalanges ?

This muscle does not reach as far approximately has origin from the owner and the interoffice c'est member ery brain.

Remember that's just the connective tissue, no between the ulna and the radius.

And look for his distal interval angio joint deflection there he goes okay, so that's the flexor digit or um profundis underway.

Click rethink flex er policies longest inserts, and you might want to review mentally what flexion wallace's looks like.

Before us sign and assertion location.

Okay, me yes, the distal phalanx about the song.

Flexor policies longest arises again from the forearm bones mostly the radius and the and the inner awesomeness membrane and inserts in the distal failing of the thumb as you just presume.

So in this way it's like flexor digital or um pro fund.

This reaches all the way to the distal phalanx.

What i want you to really focus on on these finger muscles is where they insert.

You know their origins gonna be somewhere interior on the forearm bones.

Maybe some of them on the medial epic con dial really focus on their insertion.

Because that's what's going to discriminate function these muscles.

What does it d'oh flex up ?

I'm showing myself flexion flexion flexing that interval and deal joint of the day and also pulling the whole thumb over into flexion.

Flexing flexing.

Flexor digit orin profundis sending its tendons to the distal phalanges of the fingers flex our policies longest sending its tendon to the distal phalanx of the now i asked you previously how does flex her digit tauron profundis really the distant full angie's without bumping into the superficial ists.

This the superficial alice tendons split and attach on the lateral aspects of that of those middle full angie's and digit, or um longest passes through that split to reach to the distal flanges pretty cool the superficial ists splits.

So what do you think this muscle might d'oh ?

Are we anterior or post here.

If those muscle fiber shortened what pins ?

What is the bone ?

Right he's got it right.

So how did you come to that conclusion ?

I'm anterior because there's a pistol for here is a little bone and a big bone.

The big bone distantly of the forearm is the radius, and so this is the slender little ulna with its head distel.

When these muscles when these muscle fiber short, neither the owners will move towards the radius or the radius is going to move towards the ulna.

The ulna doesn't move on ly the radius khun move.

So, in fact, we know this is the origin on the ulna and here's the insertion on the radius.

And if you pull the radius towards the l know you're going to get pronation, which is what you just sorted out.

Pro nater quad rapist it's shaped like a quad a ladder rule rotator cordray tous.

It's a little cuff bracelet on the anterior side you know origin and assertion because you know that it's got insert on the radius.

So whatever its origin is you know where it inserts on the radius and it's a pro nature as its name says okay, that's it.

Look at what we have done.

We have done four super fit oh, no, no, no, no, no i didn't put a summering in let me change my tune so we just looked at four superficial flexor muscles four deep muscles, one of which was no prone ater a pro nature in the superficial group to weaken now flex the fingers, thumbs and wrist we can older and laterally tv is if life for good.

The post airier forearm would be organized just like thie anterior side, so we could just switch out flexor for extensive.

Switch out pro nater for super nature, and all would be well, well, some similarities and some differences.

So first of all, we had a flexor carpi radio alice.

But now we have two mussels one that's named longest and one this name breakfast.

So that's double the work half the work for the fingers, because there's only one extensive digit or, um, there's not a superficial and deep one, but it looks like they're.

Some muscles have some fingers have special extensive sirs.

Not just the thumb.

So extensive did you team enemy ?

This would be the little finger whom i wonder what that muscle does, and then we do have an extensive of thie own on the ulnar side of the wrist on the deep to those muscles, so we do have a superficial deep group.

There's a super nater.

Finally, we don'thave to super nature's just one, and it's deep extensive indicates index finger another special finger with its own extends her muscle and now three muscles related to the thumb.

We saw a flex her policies longest previously, and we do have now an extensive policies.

Longest, that's nice probably nowhere that one inserts, but we also have a short one the bravest and abductor thrown in for good measure because we do want to control that mobility in the thumb, so we need to have some muscles to do that.

So where do you think the wrist extend sir's might originate is there going to be anything lovely and expected about the wrist ?

Extensive origin lovely and predictable based on what we know already.

And here we go again.

If the flexors have origin on the anterior surface, we're probably going to be looking for origins on the post eerie surfers for the extensive.

So i'm goingto like these muscles over here, because this is thie post ear aspect.

There's the electron process, and there's no pizza form here.

And i said origin, so i'm gonna look proximate and in fact, focussing in the lateral epic con dial is now going tio, be busy.

That's analogous.

So let's start looking at these muscles specifically extensive sircar pia carpi radio alice longest and extends her carpi radio alice breathless a shorten a long one where did they take origin lateral epa con dial and the long one picks up some origin mohr approximately on the lateral super kanda lor ridge, which is proximal to the lateral con dial of the humerus.

So that's going to be the long one and previously on the flexor side flexor carpi radio alice inserted on the base of the second and third metacarpals the extensive sirs.

One inserts on the second one inserts on the base of the third metacarpal post eary early.

What do these muscles do extend in hyper extend the wrist as the name suggests, and because they're on the radio side, they're going to act synergistically with flexor carpi radio alice two radio lee deviate the wrist no.

Great.

Look at the post cheerier forearm now when we're considering extension and let's look here, we're looking at the lateral side of the wrist and we will be looking at the post airier aspect and see these extensive sirs turning green with hyper extension of the wrist, extensive karp radio alice, longest and breathless.

No.

What do you think ?

Which one is the long one and which one is the short one ?

Get oriented is this an anterior or post area for arm ?

I think we're looking at the electron on process, so this is post here e er what's lateral ?

What's medio ?

You're right.

So the long one the long head has a more proximal origin and it happens to be the one that concert face it.

Because there are so many words in these names.

Sometimes i'm using these short cuts with an abbreviation.

Extensive digit tora is this going to be like lexx er, digit or um superficial lists or flexor digit ?

Or um profundis.

Is it going to insert on the middle or distal flam ?

Jeez! Both.

So there's a structure called the extensive hood or an expansion of this extensive tendon that fans out and attach is along this.

The lateral aspects of the proximal and distal phalanges ese so when this muscle engages and is activated, you get extension of both the proximal and distal interval and shield.

Joints see get double bang for your nervous system, but when this muscle engages so any of you who might be string players out there or piano players, are you wondering where all of the fine control of your fingers come from ?

Because the he flexes and extensive is that we've talked about seemed to be controlling all four fingers at the same time, which is how i play piano ?

So it turns out that fine control of the fingers, aban abduction and control of this fine control of the car.

Po metacarpal excuse me metacarpal fail and guille joins those are muscles that are found in the palm of the hand.

The intrinsic hand muscles so we're not talking about those in this course.

Oh, i skipped it.

All are superficial.

Humors.

War.

You saw there that there's also an extensive retin acura toe hold down the extensive attendants.

Very easy to find the tendons of your extensive digital or a muscle they pop right out.

There's just skin laying over these tendons, so there are quite superficial and easy to see extensive digit eam enemy.

A lateral.

It akane dial like many of these extensive sirs opposite to the flex sirs.

That part is good.

We have a general ballpark of origin for many of these flecks er's and extensive sirs, and this one inserts into the middle and distal phalanges of just digit number five the little finger.

Why evolutionarily we needed to do this ?

I do not know.

I say evolutionarily because what was the function behind this structure this individual muscle.

I don't know.

Click on extensive carpi all nerys.

Where would flexor carpi all nerys insert and is thie extensive carpi all nerys like that four.

Okay got to be careful here.

Let's see what we've got.

And we want the muscle who's tendon inserts.

On the basis of the fifth metacarpal.

This muscle that some of you clicked on is actually on the anterior side taking origin from the medial, eh ?

Pecan diallo, not the lateral epic con dial and is in fact, lex so here's thie extent, sir attaching on the base of the fifth what's muscle one ?

Extensive digit torm and you can see these extensive expansions extensive hoods.

Genser carpal nerys lateral epic candle of the humerus base of the fifth metacarpal the flexor carpi l nerys attached on the pistol for me and the base of the fifth so very much like it just kind of the opposite side of the coin like you would expect wrist extension hyperextension and works together with flexor carpi l maris to generate ulnar deviation.

Is loathe the action.

Yeah.

Ulnar, deviation and hyperextension.

And we'll see here extensive carpal nerys turning green with extension and hyper extension notice it's working opposite too flexor carpi all nerys.

All right last five, last five.

Here we go so we're going to look for the super nature where might that be an extensive a separate extensive of the index finger and then these thumb muscles ?

Let's go super nater has origin.

On the humerus and the owner lateral side, which is what we would expect from a post cheerier muscle and inserts on the radius and to row lateral proximal radius.

So it wraps around the radius from the back, grabs it and pulls it into super nation.

Okay, let's get oriented any idea what muscle number one might one of the first muscles today.

Extensive of the elbow that's not triceps at san kony is number.

One origin lateral up akane dial insertion on the ulna here.

Super nater has a little bit of lateral.

Eh ?

Pecan dial attachment all our origin and it's got a diagonal path.

That we can see here all of these muscles that we're talking about now past downward or distantly and laterally that's super nater.

And go ahead and type in what we just talked about.

That would be antonius.

How long does that take to type antonius your first fun time spelling that muscle and coney is not too bad.

And here we go.

Super nader shortens was super nation.

That's because it's a super nater, so is going to turn green when it pulls that antero lateral radius towards its post cheerier origin and super nate's extensive into cas here we go doesn't reach all the way proximity to the humorous, take sergeant post airier, ulna and ina.

Rossi is membrane and inserts into the extensive expansion digit number two the index finger and extends it.

Politicians aren't supposed to use this finger you're not supposed to point at your audience here a politician because it's offensive, so they have to curb their extensive indicates muscles.

Okay, so that's that.

Now we're going to talk about the last three muscles of the day.

They're interesting.

They formed something called the anatomical snuff box.

So if you abduct your thumb, you can see a space right on the lateral.

Most aspect up your wrists.

That's the anatomical a snuff box if you abduct and now.

Hyper extend and abduct.

It really pops out, so there are two tendons on one side.

Those the two tenants you can see most laterally and then one attendant on the other side of this snuff box and those air.

The tendons of the muscles were about to talk about abductor polic.

A ce longest abductor tells you where this muscle insert.

On the sun, but we're on the abduction happens at thie car po metacarpal joints.

So this muscle attach is on the first metacarpal, so it can pull that metacarpal into abt.

Diagonal pathway across post eerie or forearm inserts on the base of the first and takes origin from everything back there on the radius and in marassi, iss membrane important important important is its insertion origin posterior for abducts and extends the first car po medic article carpal joint and then here's some detail forms the lateral radio border of thie uncle snuff box so you're looking at your snuff box likely in a prone ated position of your forum.

But remember, this is the thumb side, so it's lateral.

So it's one of this pair of tendons here right on this lateral aspect of your wrist.

Here's the second of that pair muscles forming the lateral border of the snuff box.

Extensive polic a breathless bravas means it shorter so that would suggest to me that when you extend the thumb, the shorter one is probably going to be attaching on the more proximal phalanx of the.

And in fact, that is its insertion tics or origin again.

Post ear ear for radius and anna ross's ma'am.

And what is it to extends the first metacarpal failan jeel joint if you were hitchhiking, you would use your extensive politest crevice or no, no thumbs up.

Thumbs up.

Extends her publicas bravas there, we go.

Medial border is the last muscle of the day.

It's sensor policies, longest, and that one is going tio arise more immediately on the ulna, but it inserts on the distal phalanx of the so finally, we have no some mechanism to extend this inter ful angio joint out.

Yes, i have a mobile joint because i have a curly one night extend my thumbs up is curly.

Okay, so let's let's try to make sense of this here is a deep dissection of the post airier forearm there's antonius this is lateral.

It pecan dial and here are these deep diagonal muscles.

This one more most approximately a super nater.

That's not labeled here and then here arthuis the four anatomical snuff box.

Excuse me the three anatomical snuff box muscles.

And finally, this extensive indicates so these are the five deep muscles shown here.

So the most proximal is abductor polic a ce longest paired with that to form the lateral side of the snuff box is thie.

Extensive polic a breakfast.

So i remember this because there's a b an abductor, and there's a bee in breakfast.

So the abductor and the breakfast travel together on that lateral aspect of the snuff box and the extent sir publicas longest forms the medial side of a snuff box so you can check this out in your own wrist and try to relate what you see here too.

The attachments and functions of these muscles and then when you get to an exam, you just have to look at your wrist.

And it will be all there for you.

So here is a cadaver view.

So we're looking here at a right arm.

And this is a post here your left arm not to be confused.

So here are these four distinctive diagonal going muscles here most proximal is thie, ab doctor, and then, extensive, yeah, breathless and then finally separate from those two is extensive publicas, longest foreign.

Five, you can really see where that how that snuff box space is formed warned, and why there's a hollow.

There's just not any tissue they're to fill up that space.

It appears that active platform active learning platform is not cooperating.

It's gone black on me.

So i guess that means we're done for the day.

I think i have some videos frito look at here for the rest of the slides.

If not, i'll add in one or two more slides that beginning of next time.

So the good news is nothing new next time we'll just rehearse these muscles again on wednesday.

So good work in here this morning ah!