What a week we have last week.

High day st patrick's day we got.

Finally, students in here actually have letter grades and really good basketball right.

So good week last week let's move on and look at what's coming, so they're more.

More articles are more assignments coming in me and migrating team you've kept us busy coming up next week is the exam on muscles will finish the last of the muscles that will be on that exam this week and then we head into the home stretch.

Any questions about where we are or where we are going.

No not yet.

So let's do hip muscles.

We are moving on down to the lower extremity.

You're going to be so happy with the muscles because they're so easy compared with the upper extremities muscles they make sense.

There is no strangeness with regards to teo road medial or lateral e that shoulder that glenn, oh, hugh meral joint or all of the details of the forearm muscles.

So let's dive in and get this job done so hip joint three degrees of freedom, flexion extension aban abduction internal and external rotation medial lateral rotation.

And so we have a number of functions.

We need to learn to control, and it looks like we got one muscle group but look at the name of that muscle group six deep lateral rotator sze.

So if you belong to that group, you know the function and you know where they're located deep.

So let's do this job.

Muscles are needed to flex extend one degree of freedom.

Aban abduct another degree of freedom and medial and latterly rotate the hips.

This's a tri axial joint at the hip so we are going to study these muscles in four ways will look at an anterior most eerie a group, and you can guess right now with the function of those muscles will be anterior flexion cheerier extension, abductor's and the, but the gluteal region.

So let's look at that.

So what muscle function is shared by all muscles in the anterior group and i believe i just helped you with that.

And here we go.

We have flex er's anterior early excellent work, and let's meet those muscles now only four of them to look at sartorius tenser fascia lata, rectus memories and a leo so as who what do we make of that sartorius ?

I don't know tenser fascia lata tenses the fashion of the leg rectus ephemera straight muscle of the femur and a lio so as well there's something friendly.

We already have met that muscle and here they are all turning green.

Can you find a leo ?

So as something attaching to the vertebrae of the lumbar region all righty.

So our anterior muscles are turning green when they shorten when the joint flexes.

Okay, so let's meet the first one start sorious sartorius, a tent attach is anterior superior iliac spine you can feel those landmarks quite easily takes origin there and inserts not on the femur of all but reaches all the way down to grab on to the proximal medial tibia and what are its functions ?

I will demonstrate its functions right now when you sit in taylor's position.

That's what sartorius does sartorius sartorial splendor dressing well, you associate this with how they used to sit and sew before there were machines.

So when you sit in this cross legged position, you are leftist abducted and laterally rotated.

So that's sartorius it does all of those things.

Yeah.

Or step on it.

Now i'm going to turn the volume down because of the blast we got earlier.

Sure.

Okay, so i am going to point out the next muscle.

Here's sartorius and now we're going to talk about this muscle.

And what do you observe here ?

An origin near sartorius but this muscle heads west it heads media.

Alexis meade laterally where sartorius takes a medial course so you can anticipate maybe what the function of this muscle would be.

It's anterior, it's lateral, but it's lateral going fibers are going to affect rotation love.

Hip joint differently than sartorius.

Hold that thought.

And we'll see sartorius.

Where is it anterior ?

Superior iliac spine medial proximal tibia.

They're sartorius crossing diagonally across and superficially across the thigh and shortening with flexion here will see sartorius shortening with abduction of the hip joint.

Here's frontal plane and you can see that as the hip joint ab ducks, sartorius is turning green.

It is short name.

It's pulling that medial tibia in a direction of abduction and now we'll look at sartorius shortening with lateral rotation pulling that proximal tibia and tear ear ly proximal medial tibia anterior lee which is the motion of lateral flexion at the hip joint.

All right so we'll see our anatomy man demo this movement and there's his sartorius, tendon there and he's showing us.

The movement.

Okay, here is that muscle that i pointed out on the cadaver dissection tenser fascia lata or lady.

You might pronounce it that way as well.

So it's a little short muscle with a very long tendon.

In fact, it's tendon of insertion is thie.

Elio tibial band from the ilium to the tibia.

And on your lateral thigh, you can feel that then some of you actually might have had physical therapy.

Two stretch out that band.

So here it isthe taking origin near sartorius on the iliac crest and then inserting on the via the it's banned on the lateral tibia, so it shares flexion and abduction function with sartorius.

But because of its lateral going fire fibers instead of medial toe attachment, it's going teo immediately rotate it'll pull the lateral aspect of the tibia anterior early, which is medial rotation.

And let's see it also loathe.

Could see that fashion that flattened tendon of insertion.

Here it is knows what a shortened as it pulls that lateral tibia anteria li it turns green with medial rotation.

Can you find rudolph honore evs tenser fashion, laddie leighty muscle while you're there, you can appreciate many of the muscles that we've learned before i could see his saray tous anterior pectore alice major metis imus door sigh you can see his coric oh, breaky alice you can see his biceps breaky i.

External oblique and unbelievably prominent tenser fascia lata there it iss good job.

So we'll watch some demonstrations of our fella here.

Demonstrating medial rotation and now, what do we think about functions of these two mussels ?

Sartorius head immediately tenser fascia lata moving laterally.

Already here we go.

Hey, so let's consider thiss this word antagonised means they have opposite functions and we saw that both of these muscles.

Our anteria anterior, so they're going to share function in a flexion that's movement in the sagittal plane.

They're both going to share function of abduction, so they're agonists or rather and synergistic in the frontal plane.

So it's medial lateral rotation where there are antagonists, and that's the trance first place just to remember the beginning of the course.

Alright muscle.

Three of four rectus fremer a straight muscle of the femur, and this one has attachment in the neighborhood of tfl and sartorius anterior on the ilium.

This time taking origin from the anterior inferior iliac spine all by itself takes origin there and inserts on the tibial tuba ross iti as part of the quadriceps muscles.

So we're going to meet the rest of these muscles next week.

This erectus fama rhys is the only one of the quadriceps muscles that crosses the hip joint has function function at the hip joint, and that function is flexion because its anterior a leo so as we've learned the origin and insertion of this muscle previously when we talked about this so as major rather we talked about.

But now we're going to add in another piece of this muscle called the iliac kiss.

So the iliac kiss has origin covers the iliac fossa, so it's taking origin from the antero medial part of the ilium.

So what do you think this muscle would be analogous to hama homologous, too, at the scapula what muscle has origin on the sub scapular fossa.

Sub scapular aris so iliac kiss is kind of like the sub scapular aris is taking origin from that whole iliac fossa the tendons of iliac kiss and so as major combine so there indistinguishable at the lesser tro cantor.

So we put off talking about the function of so as major.

Because really what's important is how thie a leo so as muscle combined now with ill aeacus functions at the hip powerful hip flexor.

And so what are we looking at here ?

Here is so as major, and it's combining with the iliac us, which we can't see here to insert on the lesser tro cantor.

What is this muscle attaching on and anterior inferior really explain and reaching down to the tibial tube ferocity ?

Here's a picture of rectus femoris so let's look at these two muscles these last two muscles in the group.

And they're both turning green.

That is shortening when the hip joint flexes.

They're very different ways to flex the hip in terms of their attachments, but they're both hip flexors okay, looks like a quiz.

Okay before we leave this image, i have a couple of things i'd like to point out this muscle.

It seems to be related a lot to this muscle number.

One missile number one or this part of muscle number.

One is so as major and we didn't talk about it.

But there is a so as minor a little so as muscle.

And that's what we're seeing here anybody remember what this muscle is.

Skay lean muscle of the lumbar spine padre islam forum see those trunk muscles aren't completely gone from your brain.

Yeah, okay, so here's this and and everybody knows what's going on there.

So there's everything labeled for you.

That's it for mussels anterior sartorius tenser fashion lati rectus, femoris and so as or a leo a leo so s so now we can move media lee and talk about muscles of the inner thigh.

The medial thigh the abductor group.

Oh, and there's some work to do here five muscles three are politely named adductor, so we know what their function is, so it looks like the job for those muscles is going to figure out where they attached and then two other ones pectin ius and priscilla's the thin graceful one.

Okay, so here's pectin ius.

It is thie on ly one of these muscles that attach is on the superior cubic ramos.

So every time you see a mussel on superior pubic, ramus attaching their.

You know it's pectin ius, and it inserts on the femur, thus abducting the femur proximal medial femur and actually post ear ear.

So when that muscle shortens, it pulls that femur towards the pubis that is abduction because thes fibers past the hip joint anteria lee.

It also is affleck.

Sir so let's find pectin ius in this image superior.

Pubic ramos, this must be pectin ius.

Here's the iliac fossa filled with a muscle.

This must be ill aeacus and so as major.

So we're going to see these muscles acting synergistically in hip flexion, there would go turning green.

We can see the flexion function pectin ius.

Add.

Dr.

Breakfast the short one where does it have origin inferior ramos of the pubis and a little bit of the body and is going to insert proximal enea espera so post eerie er femur like the pectin ius put a little bit distal to the pectin ius.

So the linear aspira.

That raised ridge of bone is accepting insertion of a lot of muscles.

Thus, the bony ridge and it shares the same functions of pectin ius that is anterior enough to flex and shortening when it pulls that femur towards the pubis.

Adductor longest is longer than the crevice and it takes origin from the pubic tuber coal.

So this the the abductor that you associate with the body and two per call the pubis is at dr.

Longest shares the same function as thie other abductors abduction and flexion notice that medial lip is not in red.

That's too much detail.

Lydia aspirin is on to remember the insertion of this muscle and that leaves us with we're not going.

We're just going to review those before we move on.

So what do we got lumbar vertebrae ?

That must be so as major iliac fossa that must bill aeacus.

So here's thie alia soas inserting on lesser tro cantor here is rectus femoris its origin is obscured in this view.

Buy a leo so as, but you can imagine that it's attaching to that anterior inferior il exploiting you can see beautifully for the first time here the insertion on the tibial to barasa d via the patellar ligament and the patella there.

Okay, so we're going to see these muscles.

I didn't point out adductor longest oops.

Here's a doctor longest pubic tuber coal to post cheerier medial femur on the linear espera all shortening with flexion all right now we get the magnus.

The magnus is a big story.

It attach is in two places definitive diagnosis for adductor.

Magnus is its attachment on the ad dr tuber cole.

I asked you to learn the landmark of abductor to brickle so you would be able to know where adductor magnus inserts, but also has a broad insertion on the linear aspira.

It's a big muscle and thus magnus in its name.

It has a lot of cross section, so look for its attachments in two places.

It's insertions in two places on the femur, the adductor cubicle and the linnean aspira.

Oh dear, so it has origin on the inferior ramos of the pubis.

We kind of are expecting these abductors to be attaching to the pubis, but look it has a broad origin reaches all the way back to the is she, in fact, toothy issue all too ferocity.

So that means that fibres of adductor magnus converge on the femur from two directions from the anterior from its npr people, ramos origin and post eary early from its issue origin.

So what that means is antagonistic function in the sagittal plane and tear fibers from the pubis helped to flex the joint as you would expect as we've seen those other actors do.

But the post here fibers are now post eerie er to the hip joint axis of rotation, so the post ear ear fibers are going to assist with extension.

We've seen this before with pectorals, major and other muscles.

We've gotten comfortable with this complexity in terms of muscle function, but all of it halls that femur immediately towards the pelvis, so it comes by its add dr.

Name unambiguously.

Okay, that's for we've done pectin ius adductor bravas, longest magnus and number five is a little yet long muscle called bacillus like abdullah the abductors were seeing a pubic ramos attachment, but it also has some origin on postaer ilias faras thie issue ramos not as far apart post you're really as the magnus it doesn't reach all the way posterior to the issue, and it's and it's an abductor.

Attach is proximal.

Medial tibia.

Whoa! So this is the first one of these abductor muscles that doesn't insert on the femur.

The one and only it attach is on the proximal medial tibia any clues.

What other muscle we've talked about today.

Attach is proximal.

Medial tibia which one of these attacks attached proximal medial tibia sartorius or tenser fashion a laptop.

Later.

Sartorius, so sartorius and bacillus are both attaching on this proximal medio tippi let's take.

Okay.

Esther.

Where's sartorius.

The anterior fibers, okay.

Let's see if we can find these muscles now.

All right when you got your answers, let's consider we were identified some muscles up here.

Last time, we've got a nice view of rectus femoris.

Here can see tfl attaching lateral tibia and sartorius attaching medial tibia.

So let's see what the job is here.

Have we done on this job ?

Muscle one packed in ius adductor breve ahs pectin ius abductor breakfast pectin ius this look short but it has origin on the superior pubic ramos that is on ly pectin ius so the grand majority are correct here where it's at dr.

Brennan.

This muscle is attaching to the body and tuber cole of pubis.

So that's the longest where did the bravas go.

Let's find the crevasse.

All right.

Back up looks like we've got a big vote for three being the longest.

So what are we looking at here ?

Muscle one has been cut away so that we can look deep to it now muscle one has an origin on the soup here pubic ramos so muscle one must be pectin ius so we've cut pectin ius away so we can look deep deep to pectin ius.

Is this little short add dr.

Finally we've found at dr brethren we couldn't see it before because we had to dissect a little bit deeper, and three is a doctor longest with the distal insertion compared to the breathless muscle number four.

Let's look at muscle number four.

It has two parts.

Here's one part attaching to the abductor tuber cole and another part attaching to the linear aspect.

This is at dr.

Magnus.

Both of these parts belong to add dr.

Magnus and there's ah hole here this is not a tear or a mistake.

This is actually hey, a space called the adductor hiatus hiatus is a fancy word for space and actually blood vessels and nerves passed through that abductor hiatus to get from post ear e er femur to the anterior lower leg slimming.

And there's everything labeled for you.

Okay, which out doctor does not insert on the femur.

And there are the five muscles in the adductor group, which has talked about only one of them does not actually attached to the femur.

All right and here we go and you are so alert it is gristle is your correct.

Uh so what are we looking at here ?

We're looking at a post airier view.

There's the issue to barasa t here the ephemeral con tiles and the post your tibia with the head of the fibula nested up there slightly post cheerier on the tibia here sartorius i'm guessing that sartorius because it attach is on the proximal medial tibia and it has a diagonal path across the thigh anterior early so thes must be adductor muscles arising from the pubis and inserting on alenia espera here there's pectin ius.

There's add dr.

Bravas.

There's a doctor longest so what was missing from that ?

Gristle, ous and the magnus.

Okay, so are you ready for the gluteal region ?

We all know about claudius maximus.

But looks like there's a medium size and a baby sized bloodiest muscle, too tedious and a minimum, and then our first muscle group of the day, the sixty platter or rotator and a lovely drawing by michelangelo of the gluteal region.

So here we go.

Three gluteal muscles are named for their size, the maximus, the medias and the minimus while we are looking at them here what else do we see very post ear ear moving anterior early most anterior in both origin and insertion.

So these muscles big too little post cheerier, too anterior.

Looks like they're all having origin from the ilium bloodiest maximus is picking up origin from the sacred as well.

The medias and the minimus clearly have insertion on the proximal femur actually on the greater tro cantor.

But maximus seems to have more complicated insertion.

So let's look at these details.

Here's bloodiest maximus, not on ly thie ilium for its origin, but also post eerie er say, kram and it has two sites of insertion the proximal, uh femur as you might expect at the glue deal to veracity.

But it also inserts via the elio tibial band with what other muscle tfl so tfl and glued ius maximus are converging to insert in the band to a attached to lateral tibia.

Hey, leo tibial man! So because of its post cheerier, uh location with respect to the hip joint claudius maximus is a hip extensive and because it is lateral going in its fibers here, it's a lateral rotator.

It's going toe, pull that tibia and the femur attached to it into lateral rotation.

So let's look here a glorious maximus.

Okay a little moment for a non sequitur, my first cadaver dissection was when i was an undergraduate.

I was a dance major, but i took science classes because for my electives, because that was interesting to me and one of the science classes i took was unbelievably graduate, physical anthropology class where we went from the boulder campus at the university of colorado to the medical campus in denver on saturdays and dissected a cadaver all day long.

So there i was with these graduate, physical anthropology students an undergraduate pretty much you know nothing.

So the first day that i was going to dissect a cadaver we arrived and the doors louis lock so we had to sit in the hall with this agitation was going to faint was going to faint, but fortunately the first dissection day wass.

The post cheerier the back muscles and the gluteal region.

So this wass, uh in, must have been around st.

Patrick's day that this was happening because my family who lived in denver went there after this first day of dissection and my mother.

No, it wasn't st patrick's day because it wasn't a brisket.

She served flank steak after i had just spent all day looking at bloodiest maximus.

I could not eat me for a long time after that anyway, so to those of you who ignore the boundaries and pursue your education more power to you.

Anyway.

Moving on so here is what looks like flank steak the gloomiest maximus or beef brisket for any of you who might have had a st patrick's day meal of corned beef.

Let's look at claudius maximus shortening with hip extension and ilia will say crumb origin.

We're looking here at the gluteal tube ferocity insertion and there's gloomiest maximus shortening and turning green with extension.

Okay, so we'll see him showing off his glorious maximus and here we go hip extension gloomiest maximus and we'll look at his glorious maximus again.

This time demonstrating hip extension.

You could do it that way, too.

And i think that this movie now will be the lateral rotation function here we go claudius maximus assisting with lower rotation all right so we're still not done.

Seeing all of the things that glorious maximus khun do you can also extend the extension can also be pulling the trunk upward into an erect standing position all right claudius medias let's move interior early gloomiest media's lateral muscle lateral ilium deep to the bloodiest maximus and because and inserts proximately on the greater tro cantor what muscle is like this at the glen of human joint which rotator cuff muscle.

Do you think might be most like bloodiest medias ?

What's the abductor of the glen ?

Oh, hugh meral joint super spinny or the deltoid muscles here abduction big abductor famous abductor bloodiest medias and because it is has fibers and tear it to the joanna can assist reflection.

It has post ear fibers postaer too hip joint so it is split and it's rotation and flexion extension functions.

So we're going to think about this muscle as an abductor.

And when we talk about walking, um we're really going to focus on the role of bloodiest medias in normal gate normal walking so let's look at the rotation functions here some of it wants to help.

Louise maximus laterally roj some of it wants to help thes anterior muscles immediately rotate like tenser fascia lata, but unambiguously bloodiest medias is a abductor there it goes bloodiest media's abducting that hip joint minimus, marching onward and anterior early.

And if you notice we're going also from superficial too deep, so we might have to dissect away the maximus and the media's to peak at the origin bloodiest minimus on the ilium inserts also on the greater tro cantor abductor.

And because of its and more anterior location, it's going be pulling the interior part of the proximal femur anterior.

Lee that's medial rotation kinda like chancer special latte okay looks like we got some work to do here to sorting out these glue teal muscles.

Can you make heads or tails of this image ?

Find your bony landmark find superficial indeed, find anterior and posterior wonderful job.

So let's look at the labeled version here.

Very post ear.

Your view there's the sacred, my knowing posterior and this big piece of flank steak here is glued ius maximus.

And there's the glue deal to ferocity insertion that we can see easily deep to that is deep and anterior is glorious medias.

Here's its insertion on the proximal femur and then deep to that is.

This is me hears its attachment on the proxy very most proximal part, greater tro cantor is claudius medias and deep to that is the glue deists minimus.

Got some ad doctors here and some ab doctors here.

So what's this long muscle that abducts the hip joint ?

Hint.

At sartorius long ribbon of muscle from anti rh superior iliac spine to the medial tibia.

Lou tedious muscles medias and minimus up here and we've got some ad doctors which add dr.

Attach is on superior p mk ramos that's pectin ius the breathless and the longest so that was that till i finish do we watch it ?

Or did we just identify ?

Okay.

Last group of muscles for the day sixty collateral rotator sze.

So what are their attachments somewhere on the pelvis somewhere on the greater canton deep, deep, deep deep.

We've dissected everything else away so we can peek at these muscles so the job is learning their names.

And you can see that we've got a couple of pairs of muscles that might make things easier.

There's a pier, a formas and a quad rapist memories, but they're too good melas, muscles and to ob to reiter muscles.

So the ob to reiter muscles have origin on the connective tissue that bill's thie ahbd aerator for raymond.

Jamelli twins.

So we've got a superior and an inferior one.

So here is a picture of thie ob to reiter muscle.

Here's thie operator for raman and the origin of this muscle, and you can see the internists tendon of insertion lies right between this pair of muscles, the superior and inferior gemellus muscle peer of for mrs.

Pear shaped not shown here, but we'll see that in a moment that's the most superior of these muscles and squadre tous memories is quadrilateral shaped muscle of the femur notice squadre tihs is not quadriceps, so if you're taking an exam, make sure you know they remember to look at that word very carefully.

So you don't read quadriceps what it actually says, squadre tous or vice versa.

So where's thie x operator ex turness will see that in another view so here are some the deep rotator sze notice that we conceived through the operator for raymond.

So the two operator muscles are not included in this view, but we can see a pear shaped pierre for mus, and we can see the two jamelli muscles superior and inferior and this squadre tous memories.

Turning green hauling that greater tro cantor post steer e early, which translates into lateral rotation of the hip joint.

And what have you decided ?

Pierre for meson quad rate isf.

Emery's most superior and most inferior.

This is a little bit of bloodiest maximus.

Let's find the other still working.

Okay, the internists is inside the two jamelli muscles.

So it's the operator externally ce that is not shown there here is operator ex service.

Where are we we are looking at an anterior view of the pelvis and of thie extra nous operator ?

Extra anus is on the external side of the of the pelvis interior.

The internist is on the inside.

So maybe from this image you khun get an idea of where these names came from.

And you can see that operator internists turning green with lateral rotation.

So we've got a few more muscles to talk about here, and the's are easy because it's the hamstrings.

So the hamstrings are three muscles, the two semi muscles and biceps femoris the semi muscles or medial biceps.

Femoris is lateral.

Looks like they have origin on the issue and insert distal in the leg, and you can see their post eerie er, so they're shortening and turning green with extension.

So let's get these hamstrings cataloged semi member.

No cece rises from the issue to barasa tea and inserts on the proximal medial tibia.

Extends the hip.

The other medial hamstring is semi tendon.

Oh, cece also attach is on the medial tibia as origin on the issue to brasi and extends the hip semi member.

No cece and semi tenderness is how do you tell those apart ?

Well right now when you're sitting if you reach and feel your post ear e er medial me you'll feel a tent down there on the medial side that's semi tendon oh, cece.

And if you put your fingers, excuse me on either side of the semi tender no.

Sis and palpate press deeply your fingers will be on semi membreno.

Sis so two, semi tender noses is more superficial distantly.

And so you can really feel that tendon of semi tenant assis.

I really feel that there's a member nelson yeah.

So let's meet thie other hamstring muscle on the lateral side biceps femoris and what is distinctive about this one ?

I said where it inserts on the head of the fibula picks up some insertion on the tibia, too.

But for sure when you see a muscle inserting on the head of the fibula, you know that that's biceps femoris long head.

So it's the lateral hamstring muscle and let's hear him describe it to us.

Yeah.

So you heard him talk about another head of biceps two heads.

So the long head attach is on the issue of tuba rosti with the other hamstrings.

But there's a short head that's not going to a function at the hip that we'll.

Talk about when we talk about the muscles, so this is an analogous to triceps.

Breaking i having a long head that crossed the glen of humor.

All joint and short heads had only functioned at the elbow.

So biceps femoris is going to be like that.

So what can he show us about his hamstrings and hamstrings ?

We're gonna extend the hip has shown here and let's see what we have.

Can you tell your semi tena noses from your semi men ?

Bruno's is from your biceps femoris long hit this picture really matches what you feel when you palpate your post ear ear medial knee because you can really feel that tendon, and then you can see how the other muscle is more fleshy at that same level and is deeper to this tenderness one.

And him.

Here's everything labeled lllia.

Ooh, another question what the heck is muscle one ?

What is that ?

We've got our hands strings sorted out.

But what is that ?

Claudius maximus a leo tibial band here claudius medias and that would be priscilla.

Medial thigh superficial long muscle inserting all the way distal to the tibia.

Lateral view here and tear muscles post your your muscles.

We've got both sets of hamstrings.

What is this muscle anterior ?

Inferior ilex buying that would have been rectus femoris.

Okay, so what do the stars mean these stars main important, more important than the un started muscles in terms of creating flex er and extends her torch.

And what is that ?

Ma'am i, oh, this is just these were just summary slides.

So these air not important i don't know why i've gone dark but i do believe that's the end of the lecture.

There's been no muscle of the day today, so i'll just give everyone credit who answered all of the the questions so that's it and so if you have any questions for me, i can stick around and talk with you about it otherwise without an extra twenty minutes on your day.

On wednesday, we will just practice working with these same muscles e