Good morning everyone welcome back from spring break.

I hope you had a wonderful time and here we are eight forty in the morning back in angel hall and it's just a few more weeks until the end of the semester.

We're get there.

It's a sprint to the end, so i have several important announcements and us there quite a few people who aren't here.

So if you know someone who is not here who is in the class, you might ask them to pay attention to this part of the lecture on their review.

First of all, i want to draw your attention to a change have made i sent out an e mail about this, but i will offer the last exam on the last day of class so that if you're wondering i have enough points to get an a do.

I have to take that fourth exam.

This will help you with your decision making the exams are required, but due to my naive a tay with great craft.

I actually don't know howto enforce that so i'm going to hedge my bets to encourage you to actually take that last exam by offering it on the last day.

Also, the reality of the situation is this grating won't be done by the last day of class and so you can get that exam for in the bank.

Since you don't know what your grade might on those last exams, that's one change now.

Speaking of exams, um, the second exam in general did not go as well as the first exam, and that was very interesting to me for the first time.

In my teaching of this course, the mean grade was a seventy three percent.

The mean grades are always low b minuses, so this caught my attention the lower exam score.

And i thought, oh, is that a problem ?

No, because this this challenges me if i'm looking at the exam scores is a measure of if you're learning anatomy.

And that's the whole point of grade craft is teo.

Enable you to demonstrate your knowledge of anatomy in some way.

Besides the exams so.

I'm wondering if you have any opinions about that.

Given the amount of faces looking at screen right now, i'm thinking either you're not ready to talk.

Yeah.

Yeah, okay, thank you so what the comet that was just made.

That was there are a whole bunch of exams.

Then, so how do you study for all of them ?

And that's that's true ?

Actually in my heart of hearts, i really hate the fact that everything depends on the exams.

I really hate that about teaching because you might be sick.

You might have enough a lot of other exams.

You might not be a good test taker just in general, and i hate that stress that that puts on you as students like if i don't do well on this exam, i might not get into physical therapy school.

You know, i hate that so that was one reason why i liked grade craft was because it would give you some choice and let you take control of your education.

So my final take on all of that was that's fine.

Maybe you prioritized other exams.

Maybe you are prioritizing your exam your other assignments instead of the exams.

So i am open to that in this big experiment of grade craft what i ask you to think about is do you feel like you're learning anatomy at the level you want to learn it.

You know the exams are information for you, too.

It might be that you realize wow, i actually didn't.

Know that stuff that might be fine with you.

Because if you cram for an exam, you're not that you don't remember it already.

It's already gone after spring break everything you crammed and learned is already gone.

What's the point of that ?

I think that's a complete waste of time learning like that cramming it achieves the goal of getting you on exam score but you don't remember in anatomy.

So what is the point of that ?

Okay, so that's what i'm thinking about as i'm.

Thinking about great craft, and if i'll ever repeat this grand experiment again.

One thing i can say is that as i'm reviewing the assignments, they're getting better.

They're getting better, which is just like so exciting to me because i'm seeing you use anatomical language better.

I'm seeing how you're thinking differently on assignments is we're moving forward ?

So that's just wonderfully encouraging to me.

So i'm actually.

I'll be very interested to hear what you think about all of this as the semester goes on, thank you for your patience as you notice the assignment instructions are getting better, and so it's an experiment on both sides of the fence here and we're doing our best teo teo, keep up and and help you anything you might want to share with group this morning.

No amount of hand waving creative hand waving.

We'll help here that's just fine.

Okay, so i just want to share with you where i wass on all of this okay.

Some of you still haven't choose the great predictor.

That's a little scary to me, you'll hear from me in person about that.

Should we start shoulder muscles ?

Okay, we're ready.

Their shoulder muscles.

Here there.

Okay, let's go learn some muscles that you might already know unlike those back muscles so, um, here we go we're gonna learn about this shoulder gonna learn about muscles that control both the shoulder girdle and the glen oh humor old joint one muscle group on ly one muscle group hallelujah, the rotator cuff muscles and we'll.

Learn about the function of these muscles and look at some cross sections.

So here we go if you remember when we looked at the back muscles we started at the intermediate layer because i said o the most superficial layer of back muscles control the shoulder girdle in the glen oh, hugh meral joint so now we're going to attend to those muscles that are just under the skin and learn what thes muscles are look at that pose.

That's quite interesting.

The first kiss pose like ben anyway moving on so we're going to need to find muscles that flex extend aban abduct and medial and latterly rotates the glen oh, hugh meral joint.

What is the function of the muscles found post ear e er to the glen of human ?

I'll join.

Thank you.

Leonardo divinci for doing this beautiful drawing for us so these muscles that are post eerie.

Or what do you think their job might be knowing what you know about posterior muscles of the what think these might do ?

Posterior posterior.

And you have weighed in of course, with the word extension, mostly posterior muscles are extend sirs okay when they shorten their going toe, pull that humorous post year e early, and they stand the joint just like the back muscles on the post year aspect.

But interestingly, we're going to talk first about anterior muscles, so this is where we're going to find the flex sirs so pick major, we'll talk about that muscle formally and just deep to it is a little one.

The picture ellis minor anterior portion of the deltoid biceps breaky i and cortical breaking alice so you can already tell me where core code breaking alice attach is just by its name may.

I please point out something that is important to me biceps breaky i by two steps.

It's a phallic head to heads breaky eye muscle of the upper arm what do you think you would call your left biceps ?

Breaky ?

I would you ever call it thie bicep tw with no s no.

There's no such thing as a bicep it is always biceps.

Please always put the s on it singular is not bicep.

Okay, it has two heads.

What is the function of tour alice major in the satchel plane ?

Here is the beautiful pectorals major and here are your choices.

What do you think that muscle does when it's fibers shorten with respect to moving humerus ?

Where how does the glen ?

Oh, hugh meral joint move when you shorten that muscle here's its insertion on the humerus and here is its origin very broad origin.

He shortened those fibers which way it is, so and i'm going to guess that many of you have chosen flexion, but this is actually the correct answer.

It does both and let's talk about why so here is thing cliff vehicular attachment of pectorals major and the fibers that attached there and the sternal attachment or origin of pectorals major and the direction of fibres, and you can see blue and green are headed in different directions.

So this muscle is antagonised took itself.

This is easier to imagine when you have the leno hugh meral joint in a flexed position sternal portion is going to pull it into extension thekla.

Vehicular portion has been a pull it in election, so that's a surprise about victor alice major.

Both of these arrows r orient in such a direction that they're going to pull the humerus towards the midline of the body and they're synergistic with respect to abduction all right.

So formally pectorals major has to origins a sternal head and a clip vehicular.

Head head is just a way to talk about two portions of the muscle, and it inserts on the humerus and notice what a picky picky detail.

I have put in red to suggest to you that it's very important to me that you remember this picky picky detail about pectorals major.

It reaches all the way across the inter tubercular group to grab on to the lateral lip interesting.

You think it would just grab on to the closest stop there, which would be the media, but no it reaches over to the lateral so pectorals major, you may know as thie anterior portion of your arm pit.

Or axl in anatomical.

Sternal in clay vehicular, heads of petro's major are antagonistic inthe e sad little plane.

Part of it flexes part of it extends and so it's an antagonistic to itself.

All parts, bad luck, and now we see that all of pectorals major is a medial rotator.

Why is it a medial rotator because it takes that lateral lip and pulls it over immediately that is medial rotation.

So let's watch and listen.

To a little video.

Yeah, yes.

Purge team sir.

The arms extended back.

And here we'll see pectoral isthe major in the frontal plane so we'll see how both heads are turning green that is shortening when the glen oh hugh meral joint add ducks.

And our anatomy guy, so there you can see the pectorals major.

And that will see pectorals major doing the job of medial rotation pulling that lateral lip immediately causing rotation of the leno humorous joint.

Okay, he does this a bunch of times so you can watch more on your own if you'd like and now we'll see that there.

He goes immediately rotating beautiful pectorals major there and now we'll see the two heads acting antagonistic lee noticed that the two heads the sternal and clay vehicular heads are red and green at different times green is shortening.

Why do i have this in here ?

Oh, okay, there's there those nice clip vehicular the cliff vehicular portion bulging up for us to see that and here i imagine we'll see the sternal portion bulging when he extends against resistance and you can see a beautiful sternal clyde.

I'm asteroid while we're there.

Okay, so here's a question for you we're moving away from pectorals major ah muscle that depresses the scapula you're doing a little design work here on your own designing the musculoskeletal system where would you set the origin for a muscle is going to depress the scapula.

Just a reminder there'll be lots of these drawings in the draught to know its section for the shoulder so you can practice drawing muscles on your own okay so let's see what you got no.

Oh, yeah! Which is this a quiz.

Do that were you able to click nope.

Somebody hasn't come back from spring break s so what have you got everybody's right ?

Uh there are some muscles that depress the scapula anterior.

Lee interestingly and some post eary early as many of you have indicated okay, so here's pectoral is minor deep two pectorals major cut and reflect back pectorals major, and you can look at pectorals minor there it is attaching to the ribs and inserting on the cork quick process.

Grabs onto that core quite process and poles downward immediately.

That is a depressor of the clavicle because the clavicle moves with the scapula, so it's attaching to the scapula and depressing the whole shoulder girdle pro tracks.

It's going toe.

Pull the scapula and tear ear ly pull the cork oi process anterior lee that's pro traction and because it's pulling downward on the lateral aspect of the scapula, it's a downward rotator.

It's going to send that glen oid fossa facing downward and here is picture of the anterior or deep or ventral surface of the scapula pectorals minor attaching on that cora coid process pulling in this direction so it's going to depress protract downward rotate send this clan oid fossa downward and we'll see you do that here attachments anterior ribs cora coid process.

And here we go.

What's this muscle ?

We don't know yet.

I guess you did you might think it might be a scaling but i don't see it attaching on the ribs so it's a muscle we don't know.

And it's turning green as that shoulder girdle depresses.

And i think we'll view it protracting here pulling that cora coid process anti rly pro traction.

Okay, turning green shortening with pro traction.

So let's talk about another anterior muscle anterior deltoid anterior deltoid attach is to the lateral clavicle and inserts on deltoid typical of the humerus lateral and you know right where it attach is because you can see in the gym that deltoid insertion right there on the deltoid.

Two ferocity.

Okay, so what does this muscle d'oh ?

Gosh, it attach is right next to pectorals major pectorals majors cliff vehicular fibers really echo what aunt here deltoid is doing and they share the function of flexion.

Also they share the function of medial rotation pulling the lateral aspect of the humerus towards the midline of the body rotating at the glen of human joint.

So anterior deltoid much like cliff here head of pectorals major is a flexor and medial rotator and we'll see him.

Flexing right there look at that anterior deltoid.

Hola.

Okay, so biceps breaky.

I is our next muscle two heads long hair and a short head.

The short head is the high pot knows the long head is the two other sides of the triangle.

The high pot nous goes from a distel insertion there and it grabs onto the core quite process.

The long head goes up and over to attach to the superglue annoyed tuber call you know where that is super superior to all annoyed tessa, you learned the infra grey annoyed fossa will see what muscle attach is there later short cut to the core coid process ?

The high pot news the long way.

The diag short head the long path up lunkhead.

Okay, so where does the biceps insert doesn't attach to the humorous at all here ?

It is break your muscle muscle of the upper arm, and it doesn't even attached to the humors.

It inserts on the radio and we'll talk more about its function at the elbow.

When we talk about the elbow right now, we're just going to consider its function at the shoulder.

The long head interestingly lies right in that interior to burke yah lor group.

That groove you can feel on the anterior proximal humerus.

Got to feel your your biceps long had tendon lives in that group and we'll see it here.

Screaming.

Right.

And tear deltoid and pectorals major.

Right through the ice.

It'll happen neurosis, which has been moved to a special device that break you alexis before are at the old joint.

Also access horrible souvenir or we'll get do that later.

Okay, he mentioned something called the bye sip it'll happen arose iss by sip it'll that's ah biceps and if you flex your elbow against resistance, you're going to see a little flaring out here.

Well triangular, uh peace, and that's a little bit of apple.

Rose is a little bit of spread of that tendon so you can see that there.

Okay, let's check out his biceps.

And there it is okay cortical breaking alice.

I claimed that you knew everything about this muscle by its name coric.

Oh cora quid process breaking alice arm bone upper arm bone.

So it attach is on the anti remedial humorous and has origin on the core a coid process of the scapula.

So so far today, we've talked about three muscles that attached to the core coid process pectore ellis minor bicep, short head and now cortical breaking alice so that cora coid process is busy.

It has attachment of a lot muscles.

So this muscle as all of these anterior muscles caviar, except for one part of petrels major bob, they're anterior there flex sirs and again.

This muscle is functioning as an ad doctor of the glen of humorous joint as well.

And so we're looking at this muscle right here coric.

Oh, breaky alice he is nice and lean so we can see that on there.

It is jumping out when he fled adducts against resistance.

Let's find what we're looking at here so here is a muscle attaching on the lateral clavicle and delta two bras city.

Here's end interior deltoid.

Here is a muscle with two heads.

This must be biceps.

Breaking i short head attaching on the cork oid process long head attaching on the super glen oy typical so this must be cortical breaky alice right here cora coid process two medium humorous and it should turn green.

Shorten with flexion with anterior deltoid biceps and cortical brickhouse all flex er's anterior at the clinic here mil trying okay, so there we are we've done six muscles so far where's pectoral iss minor must be a slide for the shoulder.

Girdle there we go.

Okay, so we have some functions.

We haven't found any lateral rotate er's yet not much in the extensive department, not a single abductor yet.

And for the glen of human all joint, we still have a lot of muscle function to cover.

So let's do that we have to that's all we've got anterior, lee so now let's look post your ear and do we see anything that we recognize over here we've got a very superficial dissection on the left.

Those superficial muscles have been removed.

So we of the deeper mussels.

We've got some erector spy name muscles that we could glee and up the neck anybody remember what that diagonal going muscle is up there superior lee anybody anybody know what this is mastoi process ?

Anybody remember anything about the back muscles ?

Yes, splitting his cap.

It is excellent.

Okay, so we have one person remembers at least one person who remembers thes muscles after spring break.

I'm thrilled.

Okay, so this is this was the intermediate layer that we started with with on the back.

So now we're gonna look at all thes superficial mussels.

We've got the big trapezius.

We're going to find two more parts of deltoid a middle and posterior aspect lettuce mus door cy iss here love aider scapula e you know the function of that muscle elevates the scapula rahm boyd something wrong board shaped courageous anterior like a serrated knife a scallop detachment here's our rotator cuff group.

We'll talk about triceps breaky i and a big muscle called terry's so we've got a lot of work posterior lee similar to the back.

There wasn't much on the anterior muscles and we talked about controlling the trunk.

All the action was posterior.

We've got a lot of action post e really for the shoulder joint as well.

So i guess i'm going to start cadaver video.

Yeah.

Reputation of scattered and wow! It's kind of your go to muscle.

It does everything so.

Look about.

Let's think about trapezius for a moment which way does the scapula move when trapezius shortens, he gave us some ideas.

So there it isthe.

What do you think it does to the scapula in terms of rotation if those red arrows get shorter, how is the scapula going to road ?

And here we go.

Definitely.

This portion of trapezes pulls downward on the medial aspect that's going to send look illinois vaasa, upwards and the upper fibres attached to the lateral portion again.

That's going to pull this scapula glenn.

I am annoyed fossa upward, so the whole muscle works together in upward rotation.

This muscle gets some kind of a prize for broad origin and broad insertion from the skull spiders processes cervical and jurassic vertebrae origin and it inserts on the shoulder.

Girdle all along the spine of the scapula, the chromium and then actually has all right insertion.

Also on the lateral clavicle do you remember any other muscles that attached on the lateral clavicle ?

Major.

This way would be a better representation of pec, major and no pick majors medial clavicle anterior deltoid, okay, so different parts of trapezius have different functions.

The other upper part is going to pull up on the scapula and elevate these lower fibers.

They're going to pull down on the scapula and depressed, so another muscle that's antagonistic to sell the middle part calls that scapula towards the vertebral column ri tracks pulls them together and synergistically the whole muscle act toe upward rotate.

So here are all the details about trapezius.

Now that we've thought about its function, we can focus in on where it attach is so origin skull external occipital protuberance.

That's why i asked you to learn that landmark trapezius all the way superior and then cervical spine and jurassic spine, and it's insertion lateral third of the clavicle chromium process and spine into scapula and we'll see thie upper fibers elevating.

Okay, i'm gonna go back and stop here to see the shape of his shoulders so we can think of trapezius as you can see this.

This shape of someone shoulders is shonen trapezes in victorian times they dressed the men two in the way the colors were designed to enhance the look of the trapezius or two you know to give it developed.

Look to this part of the body body he's obviously got a very strong trapezius because we've got an angle here instead of this right angle like you might observe on me with an underdeveloped trapezius.

Okay, so that's that we will see wrote reach retraction here middle fibers pulling the scapula towards the spine and will probably see depression here pulling downwards they're depressed the shoulder girdle here's trapezius upper portion, middle lower fibers and we'll see so hey, the whole muscle i think they don't have it quite right here it should all be green for upward rotating the scapula.

Here yeah.

Just.

Medial and lateral rotation of the arm.

So it sounds like for deltoid.

If you put down any function, you're going to be close to correct.

So here's his deltoid lateral aspect of the shoulder and let's see he's going to demonstrate extension with his post cheerier deltoid.

And what will we see here ?

Medial rotation of the anterior.

It's like a movie that's not showing you could look at it on your own so we will see deltoid assisting with abduction here so far this is the on ly muscle that we know about that can abduct the glen oh, he emerald joint the medial deltoid chrome ian straight down to the deltoid tuba ross iti abductor and i think we'll see it gemma there he goes abduction.

A number of the day shall we make it ?

Let's make it a date up five.

All righty.

That's that moving on.

You have a movie here.

Or do you have a black slide too ?

Let's meet lettuce miss door side.

Or no aside from these cast iron skillets, you can see what he called the morocco lumbar fashion, so that's really the apa neurotic tendon of lotus mus door cy appa neurosis is just a flattened broad tendon, but you can really see that connective tissue in this video.

Practice emma's door side.

It shapes this portion of the body that bodybuilder pose.

Brings out the relatives miss door side.

Extending and media.

Lee rotating and adopting we saw it all.

And lettuce miss dorsey's i should turn green as the clan of huma ral joint add ducks there you go there that looks great good job.

Let dismissed dorsa turning green when it shortens in abduction.

And what else does it do ?

It is a medial rotator, so it's going to pull that anterior humorous post eerie leery.

Here goes turning green pulling that anterior humorous as it shortens post eary early so it is an add dr.

So here is an axe illa has presented on a building in the south of france and can you please tell me what muscle that you might see there in that glorious armpit that might be responsible for immediately rotating.

The hammers.

Man see what you have decided i have decided correctly that it is either the anterior or post eerie er aspect of the axe ella where's my slides ?

I know i've had better reload because i'm losing a lot of slides here quite know what i'm losing.

Yeah.

I think i missed slide.

Slide fifty four if you go back for some reason it was black and i skipped over it and i shouldn't have because it was important information there.

We actually hadn't talked about what the attachments were formally.

Broad origin spine's wreck columbo if asha picks up a bit of the iliac caressed all over the place.

Basically, what is very, very important for me to me for you to understand is that we finally found out who lives on the medial side of that inter tubercular group.

Previously, we saw that pectorals major reached over to the lateral lip of that groove lettuce ms dorsey is coming from post eary early to grab on to that media lip, so it is immediately rotating together with pectorals major.

It's abducting together with picture alice major, but it is antagonistic at least to the clinic euler part of pectorals major in that it's a powerful extensive, so who has big lettuce miss dorsey i'm muscles swimmers.

Extending the arm.

Place might have made bit more sense had.

We talked formally about the attachments before getting there.

Okay, so in grade in gray font are the anti air muscles that we already talked about.

So now we're filling in this chart.

We, of course, did not find flex sirs.

Oh, i guess it's where there's a shared function that they're great adducts.

Just we've added licious samoas door cy to our list to extensive ear's in addition to pectorals major sternal portion, we've added posterior deltoid and lettuce amiss door site.

We have found another medial rotator, and finally, we have seen our first abductor middle deltoid.

Upward rotation trapezius all of trapezius is an upward rotator.

The upper fibers of trapezius are elevators.

The lower fibers of repeated trapezius are depressed sirs, so another muscle that's antagonistic to itself.

We have our first retractor the middle fibers of trapezius still haven't seen we saw a protractor in pectoral is minor, but we haven't found any other pro tractors yet, but look not to worry.

There are more muscles to learn so we've looked at these two big superficial muscles post airier trapezius and lotus ms dorsey, and we also added in the other parts of deltoid.

Now, let's go a bit deeper.

We're going to dissect away thes superficial muscles and look deep.

And that's where we're going to find rahm boyd, uh serena's anterior and our rotator cuff muscles.

So that's our job now and explain his capital.

All righty elevator scapular.

E what does this muscle ?

Do it elevates the scapula, so does it not make sense that it would be attaching toothy upward partial portion of the scapula since muscles can only pull not push, and it has an attachment even superior to that.

So earlier when we saw the muscle that we might have thought was scaling muscle because we sought attaching to these transfers processes, but it didn't attach to the ribs that attached to the scapula.

We were looking at live aid her scapula, so it attach is too that superior angle and polls at scapula up into elevation.

Because it's pulling poured on this medial.

Side is going to send this gl annoyed fossa downward, so it can help with downward rotation.

When we have that need here is love aider scab really i know it's not it's cleanest muscle because i see it's insertion on the ribs i don't excuse me on the scapula i don't see an attachment on the rib so i know it's not clean us in scaling all right so here we're going to see elevator scapula elevate the scapula there it goes and we see the upper portion of trapezius also helping with that job elevation.

Catching on the medial border of the scapula inferior to elevator scapula are the wrong boys.

There's a big one and a little one on major in a minor, but we're just going to group them and call them the wrong boyd's together so they're getting attachment from mostly from the jurassic vertebrae and inserting on the scapula on that vertebral or medial border.

So when those fibers shortened retraction and i have a word abduction written up here.

That's the same as retraction of the scapula, pulling the scapula towards the vertebral column and again because they're attaching pulling upward on the medial side is going to send the planetoid faucet downward into down rotation and course pulling up on the scapula.

They're going to help out the vader scapula when you need to learn there's the retraction.

Here's the retraction turn green oh, pulling the scapula towards the vertebral come on the vertebrae together with middle portion of trapezius.

No.

Just think about that what other muscle.

Besides rahm boyd's retracts the scapula, let's identify what we're looking at here.

So first, let's look at this superficial dissection years.

Lettuce miss door side.

There's that the rack a lumbar fashion trapezius, but it's huge origin, and it's huge insertion and post airier deltoids, so we talked about these muscles.

Now those air dissected away at least trapezius and which is miss door side.

So here are the rahm boyd's and they've been cut away.

You can tell it's wrong.

Boyd's because it's attaching here on the vertebra border and then on the vertebrae themselves.

Here's le vader scapula attaching to that superior your angle.

I can't see where it's attaching on the cervical.

Spine because these other muscles are in the way, but we sure can see that insertion on the superior angle.

So what's this question ?

But a muscle we just saw the answer is thiss middle portion of trapezius so serena's anterior is a very interesting muscle has origin on the ribs.

We've seen pectorals made minor having origin on the ribs so disarray this anterior, and it has this sarah rated look because it attach is too many ribs, and we call these little slips of muscle and deaf heads.

They're called slips for some reason, so that gives the separated appearance because of the attachment on these ribs and tero lateral ribs here.

Then, where does it go passes deep to the scapula and then reaches around to the medial border of the scapula ?

The vertebral border under the scapula attach is on the far side, which in the case of strays anterior would be the medial border.

By doing that, it's pro tracks this gap ula, it's going toe pull that scapula towards the ribs and anterior early.

It also helps with upward rotation, and it's impossible to sort out that function until we see some other views of that muscle.

So we will get there.

Here's a description.

You're here it arises from the upper age bibs and its fibres could be seen interdigital over.

Punching.

Okay, so let's see serena's anterior do its thing.

Pulling that medial scapula anterior early towards thie anterior origin on these ribs powerful pro traction the pushing muscle when you have to push against resistance that's going to be your saray tous anterior, helping out with that and what we're going to see here upward rotation there you go rada sentir helps with that as well, and you can see trapezius adding in as well.

He called it the boxing muscle.

I called it the pushing muscle.

So if you're doing a push up, let's see that's really pushing pushing against the ground.

Let's see what sort of santeria does.

It turns green it should turn green.

It is shortening protracting the scapula pushing against the ground.

It's helping to push against the ground by protracting the scapula, so it's short shortening in pro traction.

Yeah, so you might as well just and that in here.

Don't you like it on the day after spring break when i answer the questions for you.

Okay here we go.

You're brilliant.

Now.

Here's a very important function of serena's anterior.

It prevents swinging of the scapula swinging of the scapula is when the that medial edge of the scapula for the for tea brel border moves away from the rib cage, the scapula wing out, and here is why that happens.

Here's a lovely view of saray dis anterior, and the scapula has been retracted pulled away from the rib cage so you can see deep to it.

And now you can finally see the path of serena's anterior deep to the scapula reaching over to that medial border.

So when this muscle shortens, it clamps the scapula down against the jurassic cade.

There is a nerve the long thoracic nerve here that's quite superficial, so this nerve can get damaged.

And this is the nerve that controls the rate is anterior.

So if this nerve gets damaged, you fall against a sharp object.

Maybe and damage that superficial nerve, and you can't engage your saray tous anterior might know that because you complain of weakness when you push you, don't have that muscle to help.

And there's winging of the scapula and we'll see that dramatically now.

Here we go think it's gonna make me go to youtube so i need to do this.

I need to go to you, too.

This is weakening of the scapula look at the difference in these two sides of her body healthy.

Problems with the radius anterior over here looks good looks good.

I ii that's winging of the scapula she has red isn't here.

Look at her trapezius trying to make up for serena's anterior that swinging of the scapula.

She's lost so much function because of that one muscle, she's not able to stabilize her scapula.

Okay, we don't need to look at more of that.

Okay, how do i get out of here ?

Exit full screen go back here.

Okay, that was a close call here we go so that's when you have the scapula turns out straight.

Its anterior is a very, very important muscle.

Actually had a two thirty student come to my office.

This semester after he took the course was a weightlifter and he said i damaged my long thoracic nerve.

I wouldn't even have thought about it.

Remember that video in class so his weight lifter somehow he had damaged that nerve annie felt weakness.

They went to the physical therapist.

The doc was that, but and he was like go to thirty already.

So here is might be a question i won't answer it for you, put the muscles and correct dorner look at me learning on the fly.

Can you identify what's going on here scott ?

It's all skin pulled down to show us very superficial dissection here superficial muscles who's who all righty what have you got you have i'm sure aced this one and let's go through and number one courageous anterior to external oblique three lettuce amiss dorsey one two three so we've added in serena's anterior as a powerful and very important protractor.

We've added.

In some more elevators, the elevator scapula and rahm boyd's we've added another upward rotator serena's anterior.

We've added some downward rotate er's and retractors, so we've done well here on the shoulder girdle.

Already.

So here we are.

It's nine, forty one, and we're about to look at the hardest muscles of the so stick with me for ten more minutes.

And remember that on wednesday we're going to do this same group of muscles all over again right in the re ducks lecture so today is just a hello, meet the muscles and on wednesday, we'll just be working on their functions and their attachments again.

Okay, so let's dive in and learn these rotator cuff muscles.

What does that name ?

Tell you probably these muscles are rotator.

But why are they called a cuff ?

So when you look at your coat or your sleeve, there's ribbing at the cuffs to bring it in close to your wrist.

So these muscles are very, very close to the shoulder joint to the glen.

Oh, he meral joint the rotator cuff deep muscles forming a cup right around the joint.

That's the name now therefore muscles here on ly three of them rotate one of them doesn't even rotate, but it does do the cuff part.

Well, it's very close, and so we let's go learn these muscles.

There's something that's really easy about these muscles in terms of their origin, not so easy on their insertion origin.

You could tell me where sub scapular aris's right now you could tell me where super spin a dis origin is right now in first pineda's in first finest fossa.

Right now you've got the origins and then terry's minor will have to dig a little deeper for that.

So here they are sub scapular aris takes origin from the sub scapular fossa super spin ada super spy nous fossa in first pineda's for spinal fossa terry's minor right next to in frustration ada sees to go together ?

Terry's minor inference pineda similar attachment similar insertion sites in first pineda's and and terry's minor insert very approximately post cheerier.

Right up there by the head of the humerus posterior.

That's the cuff part near the head of the humors sub scapular.

Aris attach is very approximately, but anterior consistent with its anterior attachment on the scapula lester to brickell subsequent super spin a dis.

Superior in its attachment, origin and insertion.

So what do you think ?

Super spin ?

Adis does we found another abductor ?

That's the one muscle that doesn't rotate in the rotator cuff.

Because it's an act stir already find the media rotator please.

When these muscle shortened which way will the humorous spin.

Already.

Let's see what you think beautiful, upper left quadrant people.

What else have we seen that attach is on the anterior part of the proximal humerus that's a medial rotator pectorals major lettuce ms dorsey anterior pulling backwards medial rotator sze.

Okay, when this muscle shortens, it's going to pull the post eerie er aspect of the humerus post eary early that's lateral rotation.

Here's the anesthesiologist view of the rotator cuff.

So what let's get fined or landmarks ?

Here's clavicle.

Here's a chrome ian.

Here's the spine of the scapula, so this must be super spin a dis and look how it's getting too the superior portion of the humerus.

It's passing underneath the clavicle underneath the chromium to get there.

Here's sub scapular aris anterior deep ventral surface of the scapula attaching on the anterior portion the proximal humors on the lesser tuber coal.

Actually, when that shortens its going to spend the humorous immediately and then in frustration et tous.

And the only reason i know this little bit is terry's miners because i know that in first pineda's and terry's minor attached together.

Let's meet them formally sub gap hilarious origin from sub scapular fossa inserts and teary early on the lesser typical of humors and like the two muscles that attach on either side of this inter tubercular group shown here with a bit of long head of biceps filling that space medial rotation superspy, united spinnato fills the super a spine isf ossa and inserts on the most superior part of the humerus right a very superior aspect of the greater to brickell, and it has one function that is abda.

Finally, middle deltoid has a friend someone who can help with this abduction job.

And in first pineda's origin from infra spine his fossa attach is pope has origin and inserts post eary early.

On the greater to brickell very proximately, but post eerie er and so polls.

This post airier side even more post here really that's lateral rotation, and i guess we'll see that here interesting name this meat right there he had to look in first pineda's lovably rotating and associate terry's minor with infra spinnato.

Tix origin from lateral port of the scapula and inserts just distal to in first pineda's on the humerus.

That is the rotator cuff group.

We have two more muscles.

I'm going to finish this up quickly, and then we are done so we have to talk about terry's major mike guess where that is now that we know where terry's miner is and then triceps so let's just get this job done.

This is for your viewing pleasure.

Here's terry's major.

It also arises from the inferior aspect of the scapula like terry's miner did they are neighbors on the scapula, but terry's miner has a very different job in life rather than attaching on the post year part of humorous like terry's minor does it travels next door to let us miss dorsey and attach it on the medial ?

Lips of the inter tubercular groove with lotus mus door side, so you should pair lettuce mus, door sigh and terry's major.

And in first pineda's and terry's minor these are the very same functions as let dismiss dorsey.

And there's terry's major terry's minor terry's major.

Here's his terry's major right here last muscle of the day here we go triceps breaking i long head triceps three heads we're going to talk about only one today on ly the long head functions at the glen oh, hugh meral joint the other two has just function at the elbow i asked you to learn where the infertile annoyed typical wass just so you would know where triceps breaking.

I long head attach is it attach is toothy infertile annoyed process on the scapula and it inserts again skipping the humorous entirely.

It attach is on the only at the electron process, so it is an extensive of the glen.

Oh, hugh meral joint and we'll see it here.

Hope commuted.

Okay, so i think what's happening is we are hearing the youtube video that's playing in the background somewhere.

So i'll play this video for you next time.

So on wednesday, we're just going to review all of these good job on getting here so early this morning.

I am so good luck with the rest of your day.

I hope your re entry is not to paying for see you wednesday.