Good morning everyone welcome to the last week in march, it was a big weekend.

The sun was out.

You started studying for exam three in this course and women's rowing one on saturday morning.

Am i forgetting oh, yeah, men's basketball is going to the final four.

I do okay so with that let's get started with the last group of muscles that we're going to cover in this course light at the end of the tunnel here we go we're moving distantly to look att muscles of the knee ankle and took sees the toes.

So what have we got to do ?

Oh, we've got a group here pesce and serena's supposedly the name of the group just to help you understand what they do so doesn't look so helpful this time around although past scents, rinus is latin or goose's foot.

So we'll be looking for a goose's foot because everyone knows what it goes.

His foot looks like right okay, think webb already and then we'll be looking at a function of all those muscles and we'll have a cross section or two to look at zone.

Here is a lower extremities and here are the movements that were going to need to control bethany easy.

We need flexes and extends sirs at the ankle.

We need dorsey, flexes and planter fleck sirs.

We're going to look for inverters and evert er's around the sub taylor joint, and then we're going to look for till flexes and extensive sirs and happily.

This is organized much like the upper extremity control of the wrist and hand.

What were you here is anything like super nation a pro nation, although i guess the closest relative would be the inverters and e voters there, so let's dive in and get this job done so we'll start in the easiest place with the quadriceps femoris and already you're noticing that word quadriceps and distinguishing it in your mind from quadri tous memories, one of the sixty collateral rotator sze.

We have been introduced to one muscle of the quadriceps glamorous rectus rectus memories, but now we're going to learn about the other three muscles in that group that cross just to the knee joint that don't reach as proximal to function at as just rectus femoris, the vast eye muscles their name tells you a lot about them.

Vast in terms of cross sectional area and it looks like we've got an easy job one on the medial side one on the lateral side and one in the middle and here's ah.

Lower extremity and what can we see here ?

Where might rectus memories ?

This looks like rectus femoris any idea what this means.

A superficial muscle that's somewhat diagonal in this image.

Sartorius.

So we have we're going to find out now about some of this other musculature so rectus femoris.

Of course, we've seen before and just to point out that is going to contribute to extension at the nih passing anterior early to the knee joint.

And unlike other joints that we have talked about so far and tear e er passage means it's an extensive flex sir at the knee and so the vast eye muscles air deep director's memories.

Let's look at what we have here here is the tendon rectus femoris cut and the tendon of its origin cut here on anterior inferior iliac spine.

What are these two tendons that air cut here attaching to anterior superior sartorius, cynthia you've cut away those superficial muscles rectus, femoris and now we can see the three best eye muscles deep media alice latter, alice and faster sinner medias in between so where do you think these muscles ?

That is the vast eye muscles have origin ?

And please be sure that you can't discriminate which of these surfaces is anterior and which is post here.

For example, the one on the left is smooth.

The one on the right is bumpy.

In fact, it's a bumpy in a particular way.

Ah, lines from your selenia espera and the lesser chou cantor, which we see well in a post ear.

Your view all right.

So what do you think you were thinking proximal and anterior.

You're thinking post ear here and guess what everybody's right.

So the origin of these vast eye muscles is also vast anterior femur wrapping around media lee and laterally on the femur all the way to the post cheerier aspect, depending on which best just muscle you are.

So let's look at these details now fastest media alice media lip of lydia espera interpret tro can't erik lines so you were right thinking proximal and post ear ear for this muscle.

And it inserts, of course, with the other quadriceps into the tibial to ferocity via the patellar ligament.

And it has one job in life, and that is to extend the name fastest intermediates takes origin from that anterior surface that smooth sir of the anterior femur and picks up some lateral origin as well and inserts in the same place vast just ladder alice takes fortune from the lateral and posterior aspect femur.

So all that surface area of the femur basically, except for the linear espera is origin of these vast tight muscles.

So we get a lot of cross section.

And if you notice these air pin aided muscles so they're short angled fibers which, as you know is going to contribute to a large physiological cross sectional area.

So let's watch his quadriceps in action, he's going to extend the knee here for us.

Thank you very much good job anatomy man now we're also going to see him use his quadriceps to extend the knee and a load bearing position and guess what there they go again, extending the knee and getting him upstairs.

So which one of these is medio ?

Are you getting familiar with how you might tell the medial side from the lateral side and here you might need some knowledge of muscle relationship center, so we can't see a lot of bony anatomy here we could see some, but not all some of you have been writing about or finding bursa and you're reading these little blue fluid filled sacs that are keeping these tendons from rubbing against each other and damaging each other nicely packaging.

Material here all righty so what do you ?

Huh ?

Well mostly all right now.

How do you know this is medial ?

Well, i see i spy with my little eyes the head of the a fibula here so that's the clue to the bony anatomy that this's lateral also i see two tendons over here a leo tibial band and i see three tendons over here and the three tendons over here are going to be very significant shortly.

This is the past sansa rinus group.

Okay, so there's everything labeled for you with a little bit more of a zoomed out for you.

Quadriceps farmers shortens when the knee extends.

That's because those muscles are extensive, so we're going to see that group turn green here we go when the knee extended quadriceps farmers or shortening.

Here's the latter alice and here rectus femoris reaching up, although it's cut off here to the anterior inferior iliac spine okay, which of the foreign quadriceps muscles functions at the hip joint.

And here we go.

Excellent work.

This is the only one of the four muscles that crosses the hip joint.

Therefore, it's the only one that can next to him all right.

So what have we done here ?

I've done some catalog, so the knee flex our muscles.

We've talked about the extent sirs, and it's an easy, easy, easy job.

Because there's only one group that contribute tension, and that's the quadriceps femoris group.

But in terms of flexion, we've already learned about a number of muscles that are post eer ee.

Err, it turns out to the knee joint, and so are going to be flexes.

We've already talked about biceps famous long head semi member dozens of semi ten nanosys.

Those were the hamstrings the hamstrings group arnie flexors sartorius and priscilla's pass just posterior to the knee, so they're officially flex er's of the name.

So we already know those five muscles.

We have two mussels that our uni articular knee flexes.

That means the only thing they do the only joint they cross the only joint they function at is the knee so we'll, uh, we'll be talking about those shortly, and then there are two flexors that we're gonna talk about that function at the knee and also the ankle, so there's quite a bit of activity there post eerie er to the name.

So here are knee flexes.

Where are we ?

Here's a post your rear view.

I can see the sacrum and the issue the issue here.

Our hamstrings medial hamstrings lateral hamstrings so bison summer's long had and semi ten gnosis and member gnosis.

Here's another muscle arising from the inferior pubis.

This's an abductor.

What's the name of this muscle ?

You'll know this by wednesday for sure, gross ellis passing just post here to the knee and contributing to reflection.

These are muscles that will talk about later so these muscles you don't know adductor.

I mean you don't know gas truck neema shed here it is.

So in fact, it is priscilla's which is the answer to that question.

So we see that there, some complex muscle designs.

There flexing ninny.

So the three knee flexes.

It also function of the hip recalled, the past and dryness or the goose foot group.

And those are sartorius, chrysalis and some semi ten nanosys and where they all are.

And you're looking at it proximal medio tibia.

And they're turning green with deflection.

They are knee flex, er's and you could this video is really good for understanding how these muscles or knee flexes.

You can really see that moment arm.

Okay, so let's find the pests and serena's group and this on this image.

Excellent so this is something to recognize the three tendons on the medial side of the knee and the two on the lateral side biceps femoris long head hey, leo tibial band fibula lateral tibia and then these three tendons of the person sarai, innis sartorius, priscilla's and semi tendon.

And labeled for you there.

So now let's meet these two mussels that are our uni articular knee flex, sirs biceps farmer, short head and papa.

The short had arises from millennia as for a post eary early and inserts together with a long head of biceps memories on the head of the fibula.

So this is kind of like the triceps, long, head and lateral and medial head what both heads flex the knee on ly the long head extends.

No.

What let's take a moment and see if you can tell what muscle one two and three are.

Now that you see a deeper dissection that is exposing spice of summer's short head.

Number three longhand bisys rumors long head so these repaired to insert together on the head of the fibula and one and two are the medial hamstrings the one with the most tenderness see attendant is ten diagnosis number two, and we also recognize that because it matches what you when we help our posterior medial need when you can really feel that tendon semi, ten nanosys and then deep to it, the semi member knows i'm returning to this image that we saw last time because you didn't know many of these muscles when we looked at this last time, so here's rectus femoris anterior.

Now you can see the vast eye muscles and their relationship to the femur medial side, lateral side and fastest intermedia ce to that.

Sartorius and gristle ous.

We knew last time, as well as semi member, semi tender nose labelled here is by sum's family long head, but we had not yet matt biceps cameras short head.

So this gives you an indicator of how proximately distal this section is.

And you can see now that it's fairly distel because it's picking up the biceps ephemera shorthand.

So then that if you knew that it would have helped you recognize which abductor this is last time we talked about that mystery muscle as being adductor.

Magnus based largely on the size of the muscle, but now we're seeing.

It's also quite distant, so that's another clue.

It's adductor make.

Alrighty pop lead ius pop lead ius relates to the post ear your knee in the same way that an cockney iss relates to the post airier elbow that is origin lateral insertion media.

What's different about those two muscles, of course, is that antonius was an extensive er of the elbow post eerie earthy.

Me means flexing.

What medial rotation of the tibia.

What so you do know that in real life, there's a little bit of rotary emotion that's allowed at the knee joint.

We have this cruciate ligaments to prevent that.

But there's way haven't.

We've pretended that the knee is you niac seal in this course and only flexes and extends.

But when you are standing and you engage your quadriceps muscles and force your knees into their most extended or hyper extended position, what happened is that there's a little bit of rotation between the tibia and femur call the screwing home man.

The femurs rotate a bit immediately with respect to the tibia in that law me that hyperextended knee with engaged quadriceps try this at home, so pop lady a ce unlocks the hyper extended.

And in that locked position, the femurs rotate immediately with respect to the tibia sze, so this muscle immediately rotates the tibia yes, with respect to the femur unlocks the need.

That's what's behind statement.

At the elbow, there's too much boney integrity in that joint to have any rotation, but we know that things were different that all right, so here's a picture.

He's goingto actually fake this movement by doing hip rotation, but we'll forgive him.

It's a really bad demo, so that's interesting that i would show it to you.

Maybe it gives you the idea of the direction of the unlocking.

That okay, a new muscle gas truck namie is famous because you can see it so easily on a post terrier view of someone's lower leg.

You see two heads, a medial head and a lateral head.

This muscle takes origin on the distal femur and skips the tibia and fibula completely and inserts on the calle kania.

So it's like the hamstrings with the exception of biceps from our short head in that.

It skips over the bone and runs from femur to cal kane ius, the lateral head arises from the lateral con dial of the femur and the medial head arises from the medial con dial the femur inserts vieira cal cranial tendon formerly known as achilles tendon and is a knee flex er and powerful ankle plant reflect sir.

If you want to jump to make a basket, you will be aging this muscle power feli all right so here is gas truck ni mia's we can see its tendon of insertion here on the no yes, and let's see it acting synergistically with the hamstrings in deflection, they're both turning green as the knee flik.

And we can see the short head biceps in that view as well.

And now i believe we're going to see guests drop do its job flexing the knee there we go and let's talk about by the to you gas truck genius.

This is a muscle called plan terrace.

It's a little q t pie of a muscle, very small, muscle belly.

Very long tented.

If you're a quadruple head, it's big muscle, but in us by pet humans, it has devolved to this very small, little mouse looking thing posterior to the knee.

You see how short those fibers are, and it's very, very long tendons.

So it is a body.

Two lateral gas truck name ius arises laterally three muscles laterally lateral gas truck mean ius plan terrorists and what else completely all taking origin laterally there on the distal femur and it has its very own tendon of insertion.

It does not join gas truck.

Namie is to be part of that achilles tendon.

Okay, so what need flexes air shown here something from issue to barasa tea too me kill tippi, which hamstring is that well, it's either semi member, no sis or semi ten anos is which one does it look like to you.

You see a cord like tendon here no mrs sending them for analysis and a little one and an angle e little.

So what have we got here ?

This is lateral to medio.

This is like antonius, this's pop please and this little guy is lateral to a long long long tendon.

This is plan terrace.

We've got that big gas truck mimi is dissected out.

We're looking deep at the post eerie ernie here so we can see pop ladies and plant terrace doing their thing, which is shortening turning green with me flick.

Okay muscles at the ankle are needed to control plant reflection and dorsey flex.

So we have accounted for extensive of the knee short answer quadriceps we've accounted for flex hours of the ni just about every muscle we've ever looked at with regards.

The lower extremities so far is a flexor of many, many, many, many hamstrings, a couple of uni articular tze and even some muscles that function ical.

So now we are going to talk about controlling plant reflection and dorset flexion.

We already have seen one of these muscles, gas truck name ius and what function is shared by muscles posterior to the ankle.

Well, what shortens when something back here shortens, you get plan to reflection and answering my own question.

And so here let's see if we can figure out what muscles that planter flex also might do toes.

Oh right here we go you think that their toe flexors and you are absolutely right how to the toe flexors get there so think about when you walk and you hit the ground with your heel.

Do you think that you're crunching ?

Are you stepping on your toe ex dancers ?

Are they passing under your cal ?

Kania ce to get to your toes and flex ?

We're getting there find out shortly.

Okay, so here's the cross section that be spending a lot of time with this is a cross section through that cap.

And let's get oriented you see two bones there you see a big bone and a little bone so you know which bones those are big ones.

Tibia the little incentive ula.

And how do you tell medial from laterally on lateral on this image when you feel your anterior caf is there meat covering your medio tio ?

So it must be i can't read this must be anterior and medial right here this corresponds to what you feel ilyushin so, uh, we're going to start talking since we've got a post cheerier we're talking posterior right now, uh, we will start post your earlier and superficial.

The muscles of the lower leg are divided literally into compartments.

These compartments are not fictional.

They're actually bounded by tough connective tissue pasha.

So actually that could be a problem when we start talking about these anterior muscles to start by talking about post ear yer superficial compartment, which house is gas truck niimi.

As we already know the tendon of plan terrace, which we already know and a new muscle, the cilia.

So if we're looking at this cross section, i know it.

What what might these be ?

This looks like two heads, same muscle gas truck namie has this looks like the medial side, the tibia side and the fibula or lateral side tendon of plan terrorist.

There so celeste has a lot of cross six, and we'll be talking about that, so no superficial view.

When you look at someone's lower leg, you see the gas truck name, ius medial and lateral head.

And if you look really care carefully, this is what you'll see he'll head extends a little bit more distantly interestingly.

It's asymmetrical look for that.

That's advanced, superficial anatomy and then deep to those heads of gas struck me as you see planned terrorist with its long skinny tendon and celia's deep to that.

Okay, so here's the lass and it arises from the post cheerier bones of the lower leg posterior tibia and fibula.

And it is a compatriot two gas truck ni mia's in that it inserts together with gas truck nias and the achilles or the cal caneel tendon powerful planter flex sir.

Contrary to how the muscle is shown here.

Celeste is the most pin aided muscle.

It has the largest donation ankle of any muscle in the body, so that enables it to have a very large cross sectional area.

What do you think you might need that we spend a lot of time standing up and gravity either wants us to fall into dorset flexion or fall posterior lee in a plant reflection direction, but gravity tends to pull down anteria lee on our body so we need something that's going to be making planter flexor torque all day long as we're standing.

And that's what celia's is designed for slow twitch fibers torque all day long outstanding.

Okay, so here ups here comes a dissection.

There's nothing on this slide just a reminder that the video is coming.

Name thanks plant terrace and solis sure large no.

No which inserts.

Contract.

Results raised here here three john now we'll look at a picture of slash print out solely ist by some people either is fine, and we can see the tendon of plant terrorists and celia's there turning green with plant reflection, pulling upward on that cal kane ius.

And his demo look at that medial head of gas truck ni meus extending more distantly and celia shaping this lower leg.

You could catch bit of celia's here deep to gas truck name.

Is they're both turning green shortening with plant reflection and well demo his plant reflection here, and you can see celia's and gas truck nemea easily and many people.

Okay, there are three muscles in the deep posterior compartment, so we've handled the easy superficial ones.

Let's go deep.

Finally, this is where we find the long toe flexors flex her digit or, um longest long flexor of the toes and the long flecks of something called the halik ahs what he suppose that is big toe so some polic a great toe alekos.

A muscle that is post eerie er to the tibia how convenient so let's see what we got going here post terrier named here's biceps memories on the lateral side long and short heads over here we see the medial hamstring semi ten semi member knows cut away here is medial head of gas truck anemia so we've got three muscles laterally latal gas truck name is plan terrace and and homey.

Celia's has been dissected away so we're looking very deep tibby ellis posterior in between flexor digit or um longest and flex her palace is long so if you're thinking about this, you might wonder our thief long flex er's labeled incorrectly isn't my great toe on the medial side of my foot wouldn't the muscle that seems to be on the meat.

Be the flexor of my big toe.

Yeah, you think, but that's not correct they actually switch so the great toe flexors is more lateral.

The flexor of all the other toes is more medial, not what you would expect in tibial posterior in between.

Okay, so what is the function of these deep posterior calf muscles at the ankles and sub dealer joints ?

Well, we could guess what they're doing at called to join the tallow cruel joint.

But what are they doing how they function at the sub taylor joint so that depends on their relationship to the axis of the sub taylor joint, which we can think of is passing through the middle of the foot and here to post eerie.

So thes tendons rather than passing deep to the couch.

It's here they take.

Posterior to the movie all malaya lis and that has functional consequence at the sub taylor joy and you have decided that functional consequence is inversion.

They passed medial to the accident of the sub taylor joint so when they shorten the invert the sub taylor joins.

Details tibial posterior would the world be good ?

Tippi ellis anterior han origin on the tibia.

Well, it does, but it also its origin on the fibula picks up origin from both of them, and this is ugly what a list of parcells and metatarsals so that's precisely.

What i want you to remember about this muscle is that it inserts all over the place on the planter surface.

A bunch tarsa ls, and it even picks up some attachment on bases of the metatarsals spread all over scattershot.

And it's post ear ear to tell a crawl.

So it plant reflects medial sub taylor axis so it is an inverter.

Let's look a flexor digit torm longest wee talked about this before how that muscle.

Contrary to what would make sense has origin on the tibia rather tabula past posterior to the medial malaya lists and inserts now important on the reaches all the way to the distal full angie's on the planter surface so it's going to flex all of the joint all the interval angio joints of the tone.

Sis with ankle plant reflection because it's posterior to the axis.

And because it is medial to the sub taylor access is going to invert and flexor helical longest arises.

From this distant, i'm the fibula and inserts on the distal fail eggs toe on the planter surface.

So all of these muscles the tendons of these muscles.

I guess i did that know why i get.

Anyway.

Living on so here we're looking at the medium a layla's and we've seen his rep macula before we saw them at the risk.

And we've got one here on the medial side.

Keeping the tendons tidy on the medial aspect and we'll see these long toe flexed sirs passing posterior to the medial malaya list functioning to flex the toe.

You also see some muscles here that we're not going to discuss these air intrinsic muscles.

The short toe flexors.

Okay, so we've done superficial post interior compartment we've done deep post cheerier compartment.

Now we're going to move laterally and talk about two mussels that have origin.

It looks like fibula and these air called proteus, longest and breath.

It's a long one and a short one sometimes thes air called fibula aris longest and fibula aris breath brother was still in the clinic.

You often heard them make for to buy there earlier names polonius.

So that's what we're using here.

So what do you think muscles in this lateral compartment might function as in terms of the ankle and the sub taylor we don't know much about them yet, except where they're probably going to have origin.

Okay, so these are likely going to be what.

Plant reflects who's their dorsal flex ?

Everybody seems to think they're evert er's and i totally agree but we don't know are they going to pass post area to the lateral melisse or anterior to it ?

And we don't know yet so either of these are very fair guesses that i'm glad to see that you understand that there is voters.

It turns out they passed posterior to the lateral malala's so they also our planter flex so cronus longest as you might have guessed takes origin from the lateral fibula the lateral compartment what base of the first metatarsal over there on the medial fight and medial cuneiform.

Whoa! So this muscle passes post ear ear to the lateral malaya list, which was a guest a moment ago and then from medial too, or me from ladder role to medial on this plant here to insert over here on the medial aspect.

So what does that mean when it shortens it pulls the medial aspect of the foot towards the lateral side of the fibula, and that's e version.

In a most peculiar way because it is post year to ladder mma layla's it's going to assist with plant reflection, not a very big moment arm, but it's in the direction of plant reflection.

Cronies brothers has origin more distantly on the lateral femur, so it's shorter.

It's also shorted because it does the logical thing inserts on the lateral side of the foot.

In fact, it inserts on the baste the fifth metatarsal, which you can see there in the image so that one that most will make sense.

If you were going to design and evert er, this is probably this probably would have been your first choice, and it also isis with ankle plant reflection.

So let's take a at these two.

I think, uh right there no.

Tentative insertion travel.

There.

Contract.

There's a red inaccurate, um, that ties down this tendon like we saw in the medial side.

We can see it cronus, longest tendon there.

And there's that threaten macula.

Apps.

Okay, i have an anatomical party trick.

My retina macula mme here is really loose and i can actually pop my ponies longest tendon around my lateral.

Malala's can anybody in here do that somebody else have that situation if you want to see it come to my office.

So what does that mean ?

It means if if i depending on that muscle for plant reflection, i could turn it into something that might actually assist with dorset flexion.

This is not good for stability of the ankle, not a recommended thing to do, but it just slides right around that lateral malayalam.

Okay, there are four muscles in the anterior compartment.

I see three so one is kind of hidden in there.

So what do we think he's anterior ?

Muscles are going to do we haven't seen any door see flexion so tippi also interior that makes sense and the extensive sirs of the toes that makes sense and here we see sarah peroni is muscle.

Peroni ous tertius takes origin from the fibula like the other two peroni muscles do, but this one has a more anterior word path and inserts on the dorsal sir of the base of the fifth metatarsal.

It's cousin.

Peroni is breathless attached on planter.

Sir of the base metatarsal and it pulled downward on the planter.

Sir, this one is going to be pulling up word on the dorsal surface, so this pro knees muscle is a dorset flex sir, unlike the other bon all of the peronist muscles g'kar.

Because they're all lateral to that sub taylor axis.

Tibial san anterior.

This muscle you know because you could feel it very easily on yourself arises from the lateral tibia anterior lee and has some origin on the interoffice ius membrane and it insert immediately on the medial cuneiform base of the first metatarsal.

Just like another muscle.

We have talked about today.

Erroneous longest peroni ous longest comes from lateral and posterior and inserts immediately on the foot tip eolas anterior comes from anterior and inserts immediately, so they insert in the same location but have completely opposite functions polonius, longest planter, flexes and evert tibial.

Santy airier, dorsey flexes and inverts kind of alice.

Yeah enters service i can't.

Two thirds of the way and in group between.

Ten.

Yeah, are you sir ?

Trash timmy asked and turner news flash.

Yeah, yeah.

It's make sure you do those actions at home and locate your tibia las anterior tendon very extensive digit or um longest, this one makes more sense.

It's taking origin, more lateral and inserts on the distal phalanges tows two through five.

So it's and here to the ankle.

It's going to contribute to dorset.

Flexion.

It's slightly lateral to the sub taylor joint, so it assists with e version and extends and hyper extends tows two through five will see it here or rather here.

Terrorists next look timmy on interior.

And he said.

Ten.

Certainly.

And and here these tenants are also very easy to palpate on yourself.

Extensive, palookas longest arises laterally inserts immediately at the distal phalanx of the big toe, and it because it happens to pass very near the axis of rotation for the sub taylor acts, it is an assigned a role in inversion or e version, and we will see this muscle hyper extend his big toe very cold.

And let's see what we've got here.

We'll see tippy ellis anterior turning green with dorsey flexion and here we see the extensive search of the toes also turning green with extension with dorset flexion.

This is the last muscle and movement science to thirty that you need to learn extensive.

Did you tor breakfast and here ?

I am violating my rules i'm talking about an intrinsic muscle.

This muscle does not function at the ankle joint because it takes origin on a tar soul and it assists extend sir digit or um longest in extending and hyper extending the tone and the reason i'm pointing this out to you is because you can see it really easily on yourself, and you can see it demonstrated in the lab as well.

So it's an intrinsic muscle because it arrived shirt just in on.

Joins with the tendon of extensive torm longest, let's look at this muscle.

And this is where you're going to look on yourself in the next time you take your socks off you're gonna look at the door so lateral surface of your foot and that ball of muscle that pops up on your arch.

You're right ?

It's not okay yeah, so well look at the extensive digit or umbrellas acting synergistically with the longest so look for that muscle.

There you could palpate it really easily.

So our ankle plantar flexors.

This is what we've done today we've seen ankle plantar flexors that also function at the nih post yearly knee flexes gas truck name is and planned terrorist.

We found all the muscles that past post ear e er toothy ankle joint salacious and tibby ellis post cheerier in addition to the long toe flat players and we discovered that these cronies muscles that we find laterally also passed post here to the ankle joint and our ankle planter flex sirs the dorsey flexors pass anterior to the ankle.

There are no dorsett flexes.

It also function at the knee we found tbs anterior and the long toe flexors and the surprise bronies tertius, another evert er.

But this time a proneness muscle that dorsey flex.

So what is not shown here ?

So we have gas truck name ia's and we have caronia ce long gifts and we can see tippy ellis interior and the tow extensive sirs.

Category cattle categorizing muscles that assist in inversion degenerate inversion torque because they passed medial to the sub taylor axis are both the tibia alice muscles and here in post cheerier.

And then the flex sirs so the tippi oz post your ear digit.

Torm longest and flexor helical longest are sometimes called sometimes called tom dick and harry.

Three tendons that pass post cheerier to the medium, a layla's and two bells anterior is a dorset flex sir, but on the medial side, so it's also in contributing two inversion on the lateral side.

We have all three peroni, ous, muscles and extensive digit.

Torm longest has a bit of a moment, armed lateral to the subject our axis, so it can also assist with e version, and we can see that here here tippi ellis posterior passing post year to the media malala's and the peroni iss muscles passing post your ear to the no lateral malayalam so we did it.

That's it, no more new muscles and this course.

On wednesday, we will have an exam and then, on monday, we'll take these up again and review these muscles.

The exam fifty four questions multiple choice on ly cross sections for identification.

Any questions for me about that exam.

You have some i'll, answer them an email or stop by my office there, which would be today.

You can ask questions all righty, so good luck with your studying and i'll see you on wednesday.