Good morning everyone.

There was some snow to surprise us when we opened our eyes this morning march in michigan.

So just to give you a heads up, we're going to work hard today.

It's a reduction lecture, so i will introduce no new material.

We will just be reviewing the mussels from last time to start with a video that we missed at the end of the lecture and then we'll move on to questions questions questions.

Why why do we here now ?

Not muted.

I am third time's a charm.

We'll get your extensive before.

So you're anatomical languages coming right along a month ago about three quarters of the words he just used would have gone what right over your head, but now it's starting teo lay in and make sense.

So let's look at triceps doing its job at the glen o humano joint, which is extension its posterior to the joint.

It's an extensive and so we will be looking at the long head.

So we'll see post airier deltoid, terry's major and triceps breaking i long head all acting synergistically to extend the glen of humorous joint acting together.

They're all extensive so they act synergistically.

Okay, so now here we go do you remember anything about those rotator cuff muscles that you saw for the first time on monday ?

Remember to figure out what's anterior ?

What's post ear e er first get oriented bony landmarks second can that give you a clue which muscle might be which.

And then you are a good eighty five percent of the way there, but just looking at the bony anatomy at least for naming these muscles.

A few more seconds.

Anybody need more time.

Okay, we're good.

Let us see what we've got we have convergence on b c d e a whatever that is so let's move forward got it everything labeled for you here so i asked you first to look at the bony anatomy.

We can see this is anterior because there's the cork oid process coming out at us.

And of course, it's his posterior because we can see the spine of the scapula feeling the space suit.

The super spy nous fossa superspy nato's in first pineda's and then remembering that terry's minor is always associate it with infra spin ages the oven first pineda's goes with the eye of minor here in my way of thinking about it.

And, of course, sub scapular aris is thie on ly anterior.

One of these muscles, it attach is on the anterior or deep surface of the scapula and attach is anterior early on the humerus doesn't be really important for understanding its function because it's different from all of the other rotator cuff muscles with that anterior attachment and lookie here we've got a little stop biceps breaky i long head right there in that inter tubercular groove between the lesser typical where sub scapular aris attach is and the greater to brickell a lot to see in this one image.

Okay, so let's look at something you might ask to be.

You are asked to do if you have a rotator cuff injury like this woman.

So she is doing what movement against resistance here right medial rotation is what is she's trying to strengthen her medial rotator in this task right ?

Because when she stretches that they're a band is going to take strength in her medial rotator, so the question is what muscle might that be i'm learning.

I'm going turn off youtube before i move on.

So what muscles is she strengthening ?

What is her physical therapist targeting with this task ?

Anybody want more time.

Okay, we are here we have chosen not these top two, but some of these bottom muscles and the answer is look at that the one rotator cuff muscle that is a media rotator is sub scapular is because of its anterior attachment that we just looked at pull that anterior surface of the humerus towards this scapula you get medial rotation at the plan of humorous joint carrie's major is also a medial rotator because of its attachment.

Also anterior, lee on the humerus so what other muscles might be a medial rotator now that you see terry's major up there what muscle do you pair in your mind with terry's major lettuce amiss door side attach is right next to terry's major on anterior humorous all righty what is muscle to ok here is muscle tio, i just talked about that so this one's gonna be and brain saver for you.

Find your bony landmarks get on solid ground skeletal e figure out are you anterior post cheerier ?

What's the big blue blobby thing there ?

That's up bursa that is a sack fluid.

That is that lays between the super spin aidas tendon.

Excuse me subsidy well, super spin a distended and this bony a chrome ian so it protects that super spin aidas tendon when you abductor clinton hugh meral joint bring that soft squishy tendon close to that bony structure to help prevent to kushner so it isn't damaged.

Okay, so let's see what you have got here and you have decided of course, that it's the long head.

Muscle one is deltoid has been cut away from the a chromium hand from the lateral clavicle, so we can see deep to that and look at this very proximal anterior portion of the humerus.

All righty moving on.

When you were a heavy backpack, you get tired in some muscles because you do this, you elevate your shoulder girdle to resist that backpack depressing your shoulder girdle so we have we got any elevators here.

It's likely that you don't know this yet from memorizing.

So is there anything in these muscle names ?

Or can you remember any from what you heard on monday ?

That's where expects you to be right now, i expect that you will mostly not get thes correct today.

So don't stress about that we're working through this all you need to do is to really come up with your best answer.

It might confirm your best answer and then you can you know that you know it ?

Or it can suggest to you how you might be able to assemble this information in your head.

Okay, so let's see we have very tired live aider, scapula and trapezius.

Yes, so those upper fibers of trapezius elevated the shoulder girdle and of course, live aid her scapula since elevator scapula is the on ly one in here even if you don't remember trapezius you're gonna be doing well with that ?

Okay, here's a young man where does this muscle insert ?

Okay, what the heck gives that muscle and notice i use the word insert so i really in this case care where it inserts and not where it originates.

So what are your choices.

There you go.

You might also notice pectorals major deltoid biceps.

You can even see his triceps you khun see his rectus have dominus.

You can see his sternal clyde oh, mast.

Oid and all of these muscles are next week.

Okay.

Toss up spine of scapula and lateral clavicle.

Lateral clavicle.

And why use that we're looking this's trapezius and yes, trapezius attach is on the spine of the scapula, the chromium and the lateral clavicle, but we're really looking at his bulked up upper fibers of trapezius.

That's the superior portion of trapezius, and that's the part that attach is interior lee actually onto the lateral clavicle.

Now why did i put this question in was i just torturing you about a detail of trapezius know i'm trying tio help you remember that trapezius actually does attach on the clavicle.

And that's what we have here.

This asterisk represents thes upper fibers of trapezius and you can see them there attaching to the lateral.

A lot of other muscles here pectorals major anterior deltoid stur no clyde oh master lloyd we've got pectoral iss minor deep to protect the pectoral is major rectus dominus external oblique we can see saray tous anterior and we can see lotus imus door side.

Okay, what muscle attach is at really going to spend some time with the clap you saw a lot of clavicles if you looked at the red carpet for the oscars.

It's all those underweight women.

It's just nice clavicle displayed.

Here bloom is meaningful.

It's an insertion at one.

It is an origin at three rules, so this is a two level question.

What the heck attach is on the clavicle and then which of those attachments are origins or insertions.

This is this requires full engagement that grey matter that you've got okay, so let's see what you chose.

And it's either pectorals major klemm vehicular head or anterior deltoid and and here doy deltoid has it.

What's wrong with the pectoral is major klemm vehicular head where does that attach medio medial clavicle anterior deltoid is lad or roll clavicle.

And here here it's labeled for you, so the clavicle is quite busy.

Anterior.

Deltoid attach is lateral clavicle and that's the origin because the insertion is going to be on humorous at that deltoid to ferocity.

We saw a moment ago that trapezius superior fibres attached on the lateral clavicle, but his blue here because it's the insertion on the clavicle for trapezius sternal clyde ome asteroid, of course, attach is on clavicle and pectoral isthe major cliff a killer had attach is media.

Lee on the clavicle lots going on there on that clavicle and here we have it in the cadaver of you.

Let me see if i, oh, i have a question here to see what you can do for identifying these muscles.

You put the number in your answer that will be helpful to you later when you look at it.

Are we anti rh post ear e er any bony landmarks you can recognize if you conceive better.

Okay, let's talk through this i see a clavicle here and a crow man eight is stern oh, clyde, oh, mass toyed great sternum clavicle mastoi process three is that sneaky superior fibers of trapezius inserting on the lateral clavicle and now we know that just across the street attaching on the anterior part of the clavicle laterally is anterior deltoid, which we can see really beautifully here is number two now.

What i particularly like about this dissection is what you conceal with regards to pectorals major.

It's very clear the separation between the cliff vehicular head pectorals major number fourteen here.

And then the sternal head also fourteen, but you can actually see that it's two separate head attachment of this muscle to separate parts.

Also, you can see this structure.

It's labeled fifteen.

It's a vein, so if you've ever looked at somebody in the gym, somebody really lean.

You can see this vein between anterior deltoid and pectorals major clinic euler head.

Let's pop back, too.

This guy you can't see it in him.

It would lay right in that crease, and you can see it in this dissection here.

It's a superficial vessel.

Okay, so you have laid in some answers there look at that beautiful job.

Good work.

And they're all labelled for you here.

You know this is interesting name the muscles that attach it four, five, eight and nine.

I'm going open up this question and show you where they are.

Here's nine here's a here's five teo teo away on deck today.

And here's four.

Thanks.

Gently foreign five get songs.

What bones or these which view of the bones are these.

Your three d spatial thinking is what's required this morning.

Okay here we go.

And let's talk about this.

We have lot o we have one big winner, but we have some distributions back up here and talk about it before i give you the answer key for this, so we've got the clavicle medial end or sternal end.

And that's number nine external clyde ome asteroid, of course, and what attach is on the medial aspect of in this case, the anterior clavicle that's pectoral ous major vehicular head then hear number five.

His deltoid anterior portion attach is on this lateral clavicle middle portion.

Attach is to the chrome ian of the scapula and post airier deltoid attach is to the spine of the scapula.

These are the same bony attachments as truth.

Lucius superior fibers inserting on this lateral clavicle also attaching to the spine of the scamp.

It was kind of interesting now.

This is how the scapula and clavicle actually r positioned relative to each other in the body.

If that camera was up there and doing an x ray of my shoulder girdle, this is how the bones would be oriented with respect to each other and look what you see pope out inferior to the lateral clavicle the core quite process.

That's why you can feel it on your lab lateral clavicle because it truly has an anterior project.

And of course, we know which muscles take advantage of that a number of anterior muscles on his chest wall picture alice minor biceps breaking breaky i short head and cork oh, breaky alice so the muscles that actually attached to that core quite process on the scapula are found anterior lee so i've just colored things in for you here.

Hello old girl so we've got a couple of muscles indicated here.

And this thing pacemaker and let's see what you remember about what unction of those two muscles are so you've got a two step process here.

What are those muscles ?

And then what is their function ?

One of the functions you could tell me right now without even knowing the name of the muscles just because of where they are with respect to the glen.

Oh, hugh meral joint you already know one of the functions.

But that other one be trickier.

He's got a six pack, but the skin's a little bit got college and is aged and so the skin wrinkles over it.

There's his plate is mma.

That muscle that i said that we have in the neck like the horses skin shaker muscle to get rid of the flies there you can see his trapezius.

His superior portion of trapeze is attaching on his lateral clavicle.

Okay, so what do you think you're looking at here you're looking at muscles that flex.

That's what we can get because they're anterior and medial rotation so.

Hector alice major cliff vehicular head an anterior deltoid, both attach rather laterally enter a laterally and so they paul that portion of the humerus towards their origins immediately.

And that's a medial rotate.

You might have even been able to guess that just connecting the dots on pectoral isthe major.

And i think this is there.

We go so muscle number.

One is this lateral clavicle anterior deltoid and two is deep to peck trellis major, and there's the pectoral ellis minor attaching on the core a coid process.

So i'm just telling you the answers to these questions.

Right now, you can ask yourself that later when you review and hear the answers for you.

And you can see where that vain comes from.

Okay.

What functions are shared by pectoral iss minor the rahm boyd's and le vader scapula.

Okay, before you even try to think about that.

See if you know anything about where those muscles are in your mind or the anterior post ear ear and then take it from there.

All right.

We have some choices, and our answer is downward rotation so love aiders capitally.

We know that that elevates the rahm boyd's can also elevate, but pectorals miners tugging downwards pulling downward on the scapula, so it's not an elevator and all of these muscles contribute to downward rotation pectoral is minor pulls down on the lateral side of the scapula, the cork oid process that's downward rotation the other two muscles pull up on the medial aspect of the scapula that also sends illinois pasa downward facing dog and here we go.

Here's what i just was ask you to visualize downward from pectoral is minor on the lateral aspect upward from elevator scapula and the rahm by boyd's on the medial aspect that rotates the scapula in the same way.

Here's a concept so elevator scapula and rahm boyd's are elevating pectorals miner is depressing.

They cancel each other out and you just get a double double whammy double hit on the rotation function in the downward direction.

And we call that neutralization alrighty another slide another muscle.

What is muscle one ?

Where are we what joint us this anterior or posterior ?

Once you know that consider your own body start thinking muscles.

And this is the moment that we sort out those two heads of biceps right.

And you've done it mostly.

So here's some meat.

How do you get oriented when you see some meat ?

Well, you look for the bones.

There's cora coid process that tells mom anterior, and yet there's a crow man head of the humerus and biceps.

One of its head is in that group so time to straighten this out short head attach is on that core coid process.

Long head goes through the group all right.

So what's the other muscle here ?

Cora co breaky alice attaching also on the core a coid process together with the short head, and there's a little tendon cut off here.

What is this little tendon ?

What muscle does that belong to ?

What's the third muscle that attach is here ?

One two three on the cork.

Oid process was the third one.

It's aiming this way chick finer right ?

Name one of these how nice i am see if you can name the one that's hardest for you turning find your bony landmarks get oriented.

How deep are we by the way these air lymph nodes in your armpit.

You probably have these well up from time to time.

In your excellent axillary lymph node.

Okay, so you have a name pectorals minor, of course, because that's the easiest one.

So let's let's talk about hymns all labeled here.

So let's just talk through it.

Pectorals miner you found because that's deep to the pectorals major, well, first of all it's good oriented clavicle were anterior were deep because pectorals major has been cut away, so we can see pectorals minor to it now.

What are the three muscles that attached to the core coid process ?

The two neighbors of pectorals miner on the cork oid process short head of biceps and coric oh, breaking alice.

So here are those two muscles indicated which one is which that's more advanced for this class and you would ever have to know.

But you could deduce your way to the correct answer.

Because you can see that muscle fifteen is swinging towards the other part of biceps here.

Seventeen so that would be my guess fourteen attach is more media leigh corke oh breaky alice attach is more immediately on the humerus, so you could sort it out if push came to shove and then, of course, seventeen is thiss tendon of biceps passing through that inter tubercular groove and now you know it's the long head.

So let's look at some bare naked bones painted with some attachment sites and sort and sword out what attach is where something do a little rehearsal here on muscle attachments so proximal er distal anterior or post ear ear where is five ?

Five is the ladder roll lips the inter tubercular groove.

Okay, this is the moment of truth.

And you have decided over there on that lateral lip is the pectorals major good job course.

Another clue is the fact that on the medial side, they're two mussels, and those two muscles are lettuce emma's door sigh and terry's major in this slide got uploaded to active learning platform.

The what was forward in what was backward got lost so unfortunately the arrows the colors don't show up in the black pectorals major is five.

Attach is on the lateral and then lettuce mus door site and terry's major coming from post eerie er attach on that medial lip at three and four.

Number of the dead.

Twelve.

Okay.

Good job look at all.

Number two actually who's there one.

All right, uh, if you did give me a piece of paper, let me know okay, this is hard, but i really really really like this diagram because it helps me understand the rotation function of many of these muscles at the glen of humorous joint.

So this is a transfers view and we're looking at the head of the humerus and we can tell what the anterior portion.

What the anti air direction is because here's thie inter tubercular groove or in this diagram called saul cas.

That's a groove, so this is anterior.

This must be the glen oid fossa and the spine of the scapula and we have a rib identified here.

So now i need you to see if you can come up with what muscle number four ese.

Where does it attack that might give you a clue okay.

Get a few more sick.

Of bah boom serena's anterior.

Good work.

Okay, i'm not gonna give you the answers yet we're going to talk through this.

The rate is anterior attached way over on that medial or vertebral border of the scapula.

It's muscle fibers run deep to the scapula between the scapula and the ribs, and it originates on this and to row lateral ribs so you can really see now weiss radius anterior prevent swinging of the scapula.

You can see how it's going to compress that scapula against the rib cage we saw dramatically last time when this muscle can't be engaged.

How that scapula just flies out into space right away from the rib cage.

So what's muscle number three.

This is deep to the scapula what muscle takes origin from this deep surface ?

The scapula what is the bony landmark called that is the deep surface of the scapula.

Scapula aris they're sub scapular aris and where does it attach on the humerus ?

It's a rotator cuff muscle to sub scapular aris attach anterior lee or post eary early on the humerus anterior scapula anterior humerus.

That's right so here's its tendon heading for the lesser tuber cold just like we know it should.

Here are two tendons of insertion of two muscles on the medial lips.

What are those two across the river here from muscle six ?

These are our kerry's major and lotus imus door side.

So you can see that when they paul in this direction, it's going to spin that humorous media lee so is this muscle going to spin that humorous immediately when when it engages and this big muscle attaching on the lateral lip and then you find its body on the anterior chest wall is pectorals major.

Deep to peck trellis major is six pectoral is minor, so this thiss trying can really help you study function number one and why the attachments of these muscles are related to the rotation function.

Spend some time here and here's everything labeled for you.

If you want to really challenge herself, draw in infra, spin a tiss and terry's minor.

Where would you do that ?

You would add a muscle in first been et tous under the spine of the scapula and you'd reach over toothy post eerie you're humorous, and if you do that, you can see how those muscles would be lateral rotator sze.

I really strongly encourage you to do that.

It could really help you to understand the lateral rotation function, the rotator the other rotator.

Already find sub scapular aris insertion.

Please you have to put your knowledge of bony anatomy to work to figure out what's anterior and posterior here, and then you need teo apply what you know about sub scapular heiress to that ?

Okay here we go.

Which one of these is anterior a or b.

We see the enter tubercular grove.

We know that's anterior.

We know sub scapular aris attach is anterior lee on the scapula and here here lee on the humerus so we're gonna be looking for something.

On this anterior surface over here and, in fact, will be looking for the lesser tuber cold right here, beautiful, beautiful job and pretty darn close.

At least you found where the other rotator cuff muscles insert.

So let's go find out what inserts over there anterior early, it seems i have to write this down sub scapular aris's number two as we just talked about.

And then here arthuis insertions of the rest of the rotator cuff.

Mostly infra spin a dose and terry's minor attached to eight and nine very, very proximal on the humerus but post eerie er and super spin aidas attach is, uh, on this most product proximal aspect, so that's number one.

So if you drew in infra, spin a tous on that other drawing you'd be ableto understand better how it has an opposing rotation function to sub scapular aris which of the rotator cuff muscles latterly rotate the glen oh, hugh meral joint select all that applied please.

Okay, so we know that sub scapular aris is a medial rotator because we've been talking about that ad nauseum at this point super spin, a tiss doesn't have any rotation function at all.

It's an abductor, so that leaves the two muscles that attach post eary early on the humerus.

So the correct answers are bnc.

Both it is both of these, and that is because look at where they attack.

They are both lateral rotator sze.

They have similar origins or at least they came from the same.

Surface of the scapula and they attach on the same surface of the humerus, so they are both lateral rotator cz.

Okay, it's cross section time.

Can you find the trapezius anywhere here ?

What am i looking at this is a sagittal view of a fellow who sadly has lost his upper extremity a medal.

The chain saw wacked through his thorax here in a sagittal section.

So can you find for peace ?

Okay, let's see what you have found well.

This is really good work, and the reason that that looks like it would be suspiciously trapezius is two things yu knows trapezius is very superficial.

Check right under the skin and you know something about where it attach is it attach is on the spine of the scapula, so you've got two indicators that this, in fact, is trapezius so good work.

And of course, let's look anterior now on this fella.

What's superficial on the anterior side, of course, pectore alice major and then deep to peck trellis major is pectoral is minor.

Those are the only clothes that we have we have here in this particular view.

We haven't seen this view before so we're using what we know about the relationship between muscles to find our way through this treasure map.

Okay, and there's some of those axillary lymph nodes again.

Here's the clavicle and a muscle we haven't talked about the subclavian muscle just right under the clapper don't say just under excuse me just inferior to the clavicle so here we go again oh no, i put this in which is for you to quiz yourself.

These are the same three muscles we just identified so now you can please find super spin a tous in all of this okay, so let's see what we've got now.

And of course, you found super spin aid us because you number one.

Read this word carefully and realize we're talking about soup rock and not sub check.

You found the spine of you found the scapula, the spine of the scapula, the super spy nous fossa so that must be super spin a dis so good work.

And then, of course, we have the other muscles that you can identify here in.

Frost been a tous just inferior to the spine of the scapula and sub scapular aris, who you can really see how it feels that sub scapular fossa and he find it on the deep or anterior surface.

Of the scapula.

Okay, so you can probably imagine what the job is that is coming these three muscles.

But first there is for yourself quizzing pleasure unlabeled image because of course, cross sections we'll show up on the exam.

So now can you find terry's major ?

I have confidence in you.

Please find terry's major.

The answer is totally what you know about the relationships between these three muscles.

Since there is virtually, there's very little here in terms of attachment to help you sort that this out i have some information there.

Okay year you on it.

The majority of you nailed it right there you're right.

So how do we know that we identified this muscle as infra ?

Spin a tiss adjacent to in first been ages ?

We always pair in from explanations with one other muscle, and that is terry's minor.

So here's terry's minor inferior to terry's miners terry's major.

Both of these muscles have attachment on the scapula and so that leaves the mystery muscle the muscle that is associated with terry's major litchis ms dorsey.

So there's everything labeled for you and here is quiz question for you.

Okay, still not done for tea bro border of the scapula.

What does that bring to mind first of all ?

Are we talking the medial or lateral border of the scapula ?

And then what might march to that for tea brel border of this cap ?

The vertebral border and on ly the vertebral border i might add.

Okay, let's see what you chose.

No we're a little bit scattered, but we do have enough majority opinion for d, and that majority is correct.

So let's talk about why when i said the vertebral border and on ly the vertebral border.

That means we can rule out sub scapular aris and in first pineda's because those fill huge regions on the scapula.

So we can also eliminate a p and c just on that just by me saying on ly vertebral border saray tous anterior attach is on the deep side of the vertebral border ron boyd's attach on the more superficial side or the posterior side, and let's look at some pictures of that.

Muscles attached to the vertebral border of the scapula, so let's get oriented.

This is a post airier view of a scapula.

This is the anterior view of the scapula.

There's the kora coid process.

There's the spine of the process is the spine of the scapula.

So here is the vertebral border when we're looking at a post your rear view and here's the vertebral border.

If we're looking at an anterior view of the scapula now don't ask you about this no.

So let's just wallets here let's just talk through what we khun see here is thie infra spine iss fossa so number ten here is going to mean attachment of infra spin a tiss three is the super spy nous fossa so that's super spin aidas attachment and then on the deep surface of the scapula, this whole sixteen area is sub scapular aris attachment.

So while we're looking at the deep surface, there's this great big nineteen.

It goes all along here.

That's so great is interiors attachment deep on the vertebral border, and then rahm boyd's attach anterior and medio on the scapula.

So here's saray tous anterior attaching on the deep surface and here is rahm boyd's attaching on the anterior medial border.

And of course, the elevator's capitally.

We also attach is there, but more superior.

Lee where are those wrong ?

Boyd's that we just talked about.

And here a post eerie ofyou superficial deep.

Can that help you okay and here we go you found the wrong boyd's just re expecting to be attaching on that ver t brawl border right.

And here is elevator scapula.

Superior angle.

All labelled for you.

Action.

What functions are shared by pectoral isthe major and lotus imus dorsa think about where they are pick trellis major lotus mus door side.

Just knowing in general where they are.

Can you do some function ?

Let's see what it is thing.

You think abduction.

Yes, a little less confidence about medial rotation, but in fact, that shared they're both spinning.

Go back up here try not to get dizzy while i do this.

Pectore.

Alice major pulls the lateral lip anterior early spins medial let's dismiss door cite polls media lip post here lee spins the humorous immediately so they share that again strobing and abduction.

So yes, and yes, and if i had specified sternal portion pectore alice major would there be another function i shared the sternal portion of pectorals major also extends like lettuce miss dorsett.

So serena's anterior boxers muscle.

You need it when you push against something to stabilize that scapula rates anterior pulls vertebral border of the scapula anterior lee pro traction up the scapula important when you want to generate force against an object when you push it or when you punch.

And so why is that there gets a little slide that had a mind of its own and jumped out of order, but a little bit of a random thought will come back to straight is anterior again ?

Okay.

Click on the part of trapezius that upward rotates the scapula, so we're just in a little bit of a function section here there's trapezius you khun see trapezius which part of it upper rotates the scapula.

And here we go.

Hooray everyone wins all parts of the trapezius upward rotate.

This is not the trapezius over here.

This is deep to the trapezius.

This's a deeper to section trapezius has been removed to expose rahm boyd's and spleen ius capital and love aider scapula over here on the right side.

So wrong.

Everybody's right every part of trapeze, he has contributes to upward rotation pulling upward laterally pulling downward immediately rotates the scapula in the same way.

Oh here we go.

We have to think about relationships between muscles here.

It is a superficial or deep dissection.

Can you find any bony landmarks ?

Is there a did i open up the slide i did.

Okay, we're still working.

Okay.

So lips.

We've got one answer that a number of people like it is all gonna be written down on next slide.

So let's just talk through this, uh here this looks like a post your rear view.

The upper body here is a spine of the scapula, so this must be post ear your deltoid touch into that spine of the scapula and also we have trapezius.

This here is great big trapezius.

So now that we know that this is the spine of the scapula, i'm going to guess that thirteen is in for us in a tiss.

And right next to interest in a dis is a small muscle, and here's a little muscle that's been designated with number twelve.

That's terry's minor.

Next to terry's miner is muscle eleven.

That's terry's major, and then we can see ten is the big lettuce miss door side, and then that helps give us confidence that eleven might be terry's major because i know lettuce miss door side and terry's major travel together.

Oh, to that medial lip of the inner tubercular group.

So what is seven ?

Seven is a post your muscle of the upper arm and the only one we've looked at they're is triceps.

Triceps, longhand now consider for a moment how the heck is triceps ?

Long head gonna find its way to the scapula with all of this other muscle traffic in the area.

Well look what it does it reaches through in between terry's minor and terry's major to grab on to the infra.

Gl annoyed typical, so it braids itself.

It weaves itself between the two terrys muscle, and this is very distinctive about triceps.

Breaking i long head minor major goes over the major and under the miner to get to this cat so here is everything labeled for you.

And there's a woman doing something in an art museum.

So what i saw this picture ?

I thought whoa, look at her fill in the blank.

That ladies and gentlemen is maybe the best terry's major you're going to see all day.

Big muscle headed from the scapula to the humerus posterior.

That's terry's major.

See why i was so excited you don't see those every day and here it is in this view number.

Three is terry's major.

And probably what is muscle, too.

Now that i've told you what muscle three is and therefore, you can easily deduce what muscle number one is.

And then you can say what muscle number two.

You can see muscle number.

Two passing between terry's major and terry's minor so muscle number.

Two must be triceps.

Long head good.

Labelled for you so this is a very distinct.

This is like sternal clyde oh, mast.

Oid when you just see this, you know exactly where you are terry's excuse me triceps major long head get you oriented with regards to those terry's muscles terra firma what functions are shared by muscles one and two two em three.

Okay, so i'll come backto one and to act you tell me what two and three dude okay, still working.

Okay, so let's talk.

Muscle two muscle one is in first pineda's right next in first pineda's is terry's minor these air to muscles of the rotator cuff group and when they pull on the humerus post here humorous greater to pickle here.

Which way is that going to spend lateral rotation.

To terry's minor three terry's major, which way does terry's major rotate the clan of human joy together with lotus miss door side.

So the terrys muscles are antagonistic with regards to rotation.

They're going to pull the humorous towards the body.

Adah course is not a whole lot of moment arm here, and they're both going to extend a little bit.

Find an abductor, please.

We've neglected abduction.

Okay, and you have found middle deltoid and super spin aidas good i can't.

Click around a corner like that i can't draw a box and answer box around that but if you click super spin aid us you're good if you clicked middle deltoid you're good and there it's written for you.

Oh, and look at everything all labeled all pretty for you.

And said announcement about the function shared by terri's major and lettuce emma's door cy.

And here's a tossing.

We have just a few more slides to go.

We're going to finish this today.

Here is some sorry where are we is this anterior posterior that look like records of dominus to you ?

No, so this must be post your ear.

So what is this white wait ?

Ish ?

Yellow stuff here this is the horak, a lumbar pasha, so this is very superficial post a row lateral.

Here's the ilium.

So three there is going to be the great big lettuce miss door side, five external oblique poster a lateral view and then a little peek number six at internal oblique.

And we're so finished.

So if you have any questions for me, let me know otherwise, i will see you on monday and will