One welcome to our last gathering in this course where we talked to each other a little bit of adding insult to injury this morning when we had what was that snow coming down on your way to class this morning, i said really loud to myself my really loud to you, no.

Okay.

So let's talk for a moment about what is going to take to wrap up to thirty.

I just sent out an announcement to you about evaluating the course on ly about twenty five percent of the students in this course have used the online course evaluation.

So please don't forget to do that and on lee about half of you were here last time to fill out that form on paper.

So i've also attached that so encourage your friends too, uh, complete that evaluation, so i can get more pacific information about great craft when the time comes.

So let's talk about the last exam.

You can take it on monday, or you can take it at the scheduled final exam time show up for one of them.

You don't need to tell me in advance.

If you're not here next monday, i'll expect you on that wednesday.

The exam is the same length as the others have been fifty four questions, so it will all be predictable, but the final exam time allows for two hours.

So rather than meeting at eight a m we will meet for the last time at michigan time at eight.

Forty on that wednesday, so you'd have the same amount of time as people take it on the last day of class, the questions will cover all of the lectures from the modules indicated there, including today.

And in addition on the movement analysis questions, i might ask you if we're talking about a neck movement to name a particular muscle that might be involved.

So that's what i mean by function of all muscles and i'll be aiming for the big one to help you prepare for that.

Any questions about that so i currently have one hundred and fifty exactly assignments to grade, and they're going to be a whole bunch more that are turned in today.

So i'm going to focus on grading in the next three days, so you'll have a little bit more feedback about where you stand before the weekend in case your grades on, some assignments might make a difference to you and how you prepare i'll do my best.

I may not be able to get through all of them, but i'll do my best any questions about any of this before i launch into today.

Office hours after class today.

If you have questions email me, i won't be on campus on friday fortunately during regular okay, so what i would like you to do today is to sit back and relax.

We'll be a couple of questions on this lecture on the last exam, but they're going to be obvious if you're just here following along you'll be able to get it.

Okay, so i just want you to enjoy today.

Thinking about a cultural contest for our knowledge of musculoskeletal anatomy and some historical content.

So i'm sorry.

I have a few questions for you just to help you think about gate and muscles controlling gate for.

I have a few questions for you about this before we proceed so.

What muscle acts e centric ly at the end of stance phase.

If you could get through the questions that i asked in class last time, and today about gate will be well prepared for these questions on the last exam.

We have a hip extends for a hip flexor planter, flexor and adore see flecks sir.

All right.

No we're not quite there yet.

Because the majority answer is not correct ileum.

Oh, so as acts e centric ly at the end of stance.

In fact, celia's does as well.

But what we're talking about here is hip flexors.

So why is thiss at the end of stance ?

The hip is extending, but so, as the flexor has turned on early to reverse that hit motion into flexion.

Okay, moving on.

What muscle acts concentra clie at the end of stance.

So this is that fifty to sixty percent right smack in the middle end of stands for making the transition two swing that leg through.

Okay, and now we've got we want glottis maximus again.

Everyone's going for a that's not correct.

So what's happening there ?

At the gastro hq name ius and selects a planter flex sirs are active to slow down this forward rotation of the tibia, but before the foot comes off the ground, they start to planter flex to push off the ground they have to be shortening.

It has to be planted flexion to push the foot off the ground.

Beginning of stance what muscle acts, concentric lee so i'm here.

Doing it.

Loading on to the stand slaves.

And here we go.

This time a was the correct answer.

What's happening here glued eustachian-tube axum asses turning on to pull that hip into extension.

So what are we learning so far that we haven't really thought yet too much about this dance ?

This gate muscle control likely because the lab exam is this week and you'll get to it shortly.

But now you're getting an idea of what the job's going to be which muscle acts e centric ly at the end of swing.

End of swing extension phase of the name.

And the very, very surprising and sir here is the one that you have all agreed on hamstring too.

Slow down paradoxically to slow down that knee extension.

The knee flexes turn on.

You got one great, okay and one more when is right glue deists maximus active during the gate cycle.

Mmm, this is hard.

Now we have to think about two legs.

Chyme chyme right glue deists media's all that talk about bloodiest media's was controlling the pelvis when standing on one leg so i would choose either a or c something about rights stance.

And the important thing about rights stance is when you're standing on just one leg, and the left leg is not in contact with the ground.

That means the left leg would be swinging through.

So the answer is hey again the majority of you got that right.

Okay, so take these questions.

Put them in your i'll think about this on sunday bucket and make sure that you're you're thinking is really clear regarding all these quest it's about stance and you'll be in about gate control and you'll be in good shape.

Okay, so now we are ready to talk about um history.

So here we are off the graph over on the right side in the twenty first century.

And these two lines are showing when deceptions took place and when it was okay culturally to do two sections.

And so the interesting moments are when these two curves diverge so here is this is now when you walk into a museum you call this but this is somebody tell me this is ceo common era and what's be eat what is b c before khamanei ropy ceo so we have way back when a bulge here a long long time ago, and this is related to the cave paintings.

When there was some interest in anatomy, we move into something more recently, the time of all of those egyptian pyramids and we see that deceptions were performed, but it wasn't commonly accepted.

That's because the mummification that was taking place that you go to museums and see those mummies that was a religious practice only the priests could do that, so they were the only ones who had that nam knowledge.

They were the first ones to embalm, and actually that knowledge was lost after this time.

So then we move into something that maybe you begin to you've begun to study and some western civilization course in high school war or some history courses here grease the time of homer this is classical times and we'll see what homer did tto learn anatomy a poet or what might be going on in that time shortly and then we see peter the great starting alexandria the golden age of anatomy and there's learning going on here that some knowledge about medicine and anatomy that was gained here with some shifting of those curbs.

We move into some flat lines here in the middle ages and then here we go with the with the renaissance and entering into modern era.

So let's look at what's going on in these times.

So here's all my homer eighth century before common era.

And this is how he might have done anatomy, um with this stony struck anus on the hip where they bone turns in the hip socket that they call the cup.

So there was some knowledge of the acid tab ileum actually before it was named asa tabula mme.

The cup was smashed and the two tendons ruptured.

So what two tendons might be being described here ?

What what attach is near the asa tabula mme.

Anterior inferior ileum spine.

Perhaps what muscle attach is there rectus femoris so they didn't know what these were called or even the course of those muscles.

But just in the just in a war wound, there are some anatomy might be exposed.

Hippocrates the hippocratic oath that some of you might take on the day that you graduate from medical school, so this is a couple hundred years on and hippocrates modern.

You know we think of hippocrates is this great physician had never dissected a human body envisioned the possibility of doing a dissection.

If in the upper arm one were to peel back the flesh from the top of the shoulder and from the point to which the muscle extends and where to peel back the tendon, which lies in the armpit and reaches along the clavicle to the chest pectorals major, it would be apparent that the head of the humerus project strongly forward, though not dislocated for the head of the humerus and clients naturally forward, whereas the rest of humors is curved outward.

So these air kind of qualitative descriptions of what might be seen underneath the skin.

As we move on word air startle, this great philosopher and scientist would be horrified by the idea of a human dissection, so let's look at animals.

The internal parts of the human body are for the most part unknown, so that in studying them one must have recourse to the parts of other animals to which their nature is similar primates, for example.

So what does that mean ?

So how did we know about how the body functions we didn't know what the anatomy was because we weren't looking at it, and so we certainly didn't understand chyme physiology so any of you who might have taken a history of medicine.

Course you've heard about those humors.

It was.

It was a full lot philosophical venture to understand how the human body function rather than what we know is science.

So along comes chyme alexander the great peter the great was in russia.

Sorry about that aristotle taught alexander.

The great alexander then went to alexandria and founded the city.

Now aristotle was greek.

Where's alexandria ?

It's in egypt, so aristotle's teaching were in greek.

And then what language do you suppose is anatomical.

Knowledge is in now when we're in egypt translated therapy so horava ligase was the first scientist to conduct human two sections and the scientific study of anatomy begins so we we saw those two curves around the time of um alexandria.

So at least in this city rrna one could do two sections so now we're moving from alexandria back to rome.

So the romans were interested in learning from the greek.

So these roman empire emperors then took on the's knowledgeable greeks galen, for example, and now we're moving to common era.

We've crossed over to our side of the zero line, and galen believed that the structure and function of the body perfectly suited.

Nate, a divine architects notion of how the body should work, he wrote a lot and here we see that he accidentally was able to look at to human skeletons.

You have not had the luck to see something of this sort, then dissect an ape, removing the flesh and observing each bone with care.

Choose those apes, which are most like man having short jaws and small teeth.

And so we can thank galen for some of the words that you have appreciate it.

In this course, describing long bones with the epiphysis and diaphysis vertebrae ribs sternum clavicle tro cantor diaphysis meiosis in our throats is citrine sim facist.

We thank galen for this.

Have any of you ever contributed to medical students, but fuck it a little bit before christmas the galen tag days and you get a little piece of cardboard with a string on it.

That said, you've contributed so the medical students have this thing that they do before christmas where where they collect donations, and it goes to montes children hospital.

And that's named after galen so.

Galen's knowledge is in greek.

Okay, so after that time, we enter into the flat line of the middle ages where our knowledge in the west is held.

Still, and basically what happened was whatever galen said back in the two hundred chyme.

C e time we're just going to say that's how it is because he talked to us about this divine architect in that established what we know about anatomy and so the catholic church in europe was very dominant voice.

At this time, the body was considered to think about the body was considered.

Ah, horrible thing to do because it's it's the vile contemptible flesh and so, and there were high penalties for a scientific curiosity about anatomy in those times.

So get imagine eight hundred years without new information eight hundred years.

And how is that information i passed along in hand written manuscript we didn't have a printing press yet, so every book was hand copy.

There were drawings in these anatomy tex yet, and so you can imagine that if a monk wasn't familiar with anatomy and messed up, that error got propagated forward, but galen was green.

Oh, these documents are translated into arabic and so we get some arabic derived terms in our anatomy.

But, uh, at the end of the middle ages air coming to an end now we're translating.

We went from greek to arabic and now back to latin, which is the language of science and occasionally dissection sze were in were allowed.

The legal context was this was to settle a dispute.

So long now comes the renaissance fourteen to sixteenth century.

So this is thirteen hundreds to fifteen hundreds, so we've got some science in latin, and there's some curiosity now a sense of wanting to being inspired by the classical times of those greeks and a spirit knowledge acquisition is is reborn and so dissection.

Sze begin to happen at some of the great european universities.

So of course, i'm talking that this history is a western history, and books are that are put into print.

Now might make some of this knowledge more accessible to others.

That books are getting slightly less precious and that they're not happened and copied.

But still one needs to be able to speak latin to read latin to access the knowledge in these books.

So this is what an anatomy lab might have looked like in those days.

Fresh, not embalmed corpse, so dissection would be done out rather than systemically by system.

Let's look at the skeletal system.

Let's look the muscular system.

Let's look the nervous system it was done by.

Let's get rid of the stuff that's going to stink worst first, so not necessarily a scientific approach to the teaching and learning anatomy from a corpse s o.

This is fourteen hundreds and the cleanup crew is also shown here.

So typically the anatomy professor had nothing to do with the dissection.

In this time, the anatomy professor was up there with the book.

Maybe providing guidance reading the words about the structures.

Well somebody a barber surgeon or someone who couldn't read latin who is not trained as an atom ast is actually doing the work.

Mon dino was a famous sanada missed here in italy who who did some writing about anatomy and also taught in this form as shown here sitting away giving instruction, not doing the dissection.

So you all are aware of leonardo divinci as a renaissance artist.

You know him as a scientist as well.

So let's talk for a moment about leonardo in his anatomy.

So leonardo's interest in anatomy started no to inform a book.

He was he wanted to write about painting to give information to other painters about how to do it properly.

That book has been lost to the ages, but later on he really took on the study of anatomy in one particular winter, he dissected over ten cadavers in milan, and he made drawings and you've seen some of them.

Um, as we've gone through the course, his interest was really trying to figure out how the body worked rather than trying to inform artists about how to make better paintings at at this point.

So when you look at these notebooks, you'll see some of his mechanical point of view.

He talked about how how to represent these muscles.

This particular individual was a man that he said, was one hundred years old and he was at the man's bedside when he died.

He was a very and then he promptly dissected him.

And we've seen this image or some of the drawings from this particular dissection before.

And we know that pectorals major doesn't look like this.

The man was very, very thin, however, so it might have given you thiss impression toe leonardo.

But he used this to really illustrate what we would call the lines of force of the muscle and actually in some of his discussions, he talks about that in particular.

So if you look here you khun psi corps coid process, and you can see two tendons that we know attached.

There's there's a third one in here that he hasn't shone, but you can see that he is showing a deep dissection related to this one pectoral is minor and he's showing it there.

So, uh i guess we could say that leonardo was the first one to really say look att the body.

These drawings were made for the purpose of teaching anatomy, but then they disappeared for two two hundred years.

How is that possible ?

Well, leonardo, when he died bequeathing, it is, yeah, his drawings to a friend.

And so those papers were personal they were they.

They weren't published and so the papers went from hand to hand until they until they ended up in.

Actually in windsor, leonardo's notebooks belong to the royal family and so in england at this point, just through how these papers got passed along these private papers got past alone.

Okay, so michelangelo was alive at the same time, leonardo was alive.

He was younger than leonardo and they crossed paths in florence at some point, and they were competitors.

They have different points of view.

So here we see michelangelo's famous david statue and then a drawing that michelangelo did in preparation for his painting of the sistine chapel.

Do we think michelangelo did some two sections ?

Oh, yeah, there's that's been documented, and we can see that he obviously knew a lot about anatomy.

What's kind of interesting here is that when you look at david, his head in his hands are are larger than they should be.

Because you you look at up with that so that was intentional and actually.

Leonardo's first first four rays into anatomy were just to describe the proportions of the body because that hadn't been written down before so the famous vitruvian man that you see.

Leonardo did that early on in his anatomical studies.

To talk about proportion.

Okay, so andrius and dress vasiliy came along.

He's chyme belgian and he gets credit for being the first person.

Two break this stranglehold of galen and say don't read about it in a book go look at a cadaver if you want to learn anatomy, that's big news in the sixteenth century and he published this book.

We've seen a lot of these drawings in this course.

Fifteen forty three when he's he is actually providing images in an anatomy book teo teach you.

How to look for these structures so heat when he gave anatomy lectures, he actually did the dissection, so that's changed things a lot he's getting his hands dirty literally, so the person with the knowledge is doing the dissection.

That's brand new, and he's using visual aids two help learn anatomy.

So this book of which the university of michigan has an original copy.

That's just quite amazing.

One just can never stop being impressed by the university of michigan library so game found horror of horrors errors in the grandmaster galen's anatomy, and he encouraged students to look directly the body rather than just taking it as gospel as it might have appeared in galen's books.

So does this look familiar ?

The reason that we have this kind of italian tuscany looking landscape chyme was due to the artist that the sale is collaborated with to make these wood block prints of of anatomy, you can see one of the skeletons that the saley is prepared mom if you happen to travel to basel in switzerland.

So what i'm going to do right now is pause for a moment.

And read something to you.

This was the job that this alias had in order to prepare skeleton in order to do dissection.

Because dissection zehr rare at this time, it's on ly by someone in power, giving dispensation a pope anyway.

You can see that how easy it is to prepare the bones of the human body, which are so much sought after by physicians.

They're rare.

It is the actual assembly, which we'll see in the most difficult part of the tests to someone who's not personally engaged in it.

Yet the first time i tried it, i achieved a fair measure of success following the example of those whom i had sometimes seen repairing broken plates and assembling stone cauldrons the technique of boiling bones i learned from its medical use for softening after the tumult of war forced me to return from paris to louvain, i went for a walk with gem of desire areas, a man with few peers as mathematician and physician in the hope of seeing son bones, we went to the place where to the great advantage of stewed all who have suffered.

The death penalty are displayed by the public highway for the benefit of the rest sticks, and there i came upon a skeleton like that of the brigand, which galen records having seen.

The birds has stripped the flesh from galen's one, and i think they had picked this one clean as well.

For a year ago, his body had been merely charred, and as it were toasted over a straw fire and tied to his steak, he had provided the birds with such a tasty meal that the bones were completely bare and bound together solely by the ligaments with only the origins and insertions of the muscles preserved, this does not normally happen in the case of people who've been hanged, despite a popular impression to the contrary, the birds normally peck away nothing, but the eyes because the skin is so thick, and as the skin remains intact the bones decay inside and are completely useless for teaching purposes.

This skeleton was completely dry and completely clean, and i examined it carefully determined not to lose such an unexpected and long sought opportunity with gemma's help.

I climbed the steak and pulled away of femur from the hip bone.

And when i pulled up the upper limbs, the arms and hands came away, bringing with them the scapula.

The fingers of one hand were missing together with both vitelli and one foot.

I took the legs and arms home in several secret journeys, leaving the trunk and head.

The thor ix was tied with a chain high up.

And in order to secure it, i allowed myself to be shut outside the city at nightfall.

So keen and eager was i to obtain these bones that i did not flinch from going at midnight, amongst all those corpses and pulling down what i wanted.

I had to climb the steak without any assistance, and it took a great deal of effort and hard work having pulled down the bones.

I took them away a certain distance and hid them in a secret place and brought them home bit by bit the next day through another of the city gates.

When i started to cut through the ligaments that were so hard that they resisted all my efforts, and i was compelled to soften them in boiling water in order to achieve what i want to.

Eventually see all the bones in secret in this way and having cleaned them i built up this skeleton, which is still preserved in louvain at the home of my very good friend disparages carbo carbohydrates, a noted physician skilled in a variety of disciplines and my fellow student from childhood.

I prepared this skeleton so quickly supplying the missing hand and foot in patel e with considerable difficulty from another source that everyone was convinced.

I'd brought it from paris in order to avoid any suspicion of body snatching.

The governor of that city, paris was indeed very well disposed toward medical students being happy to supply a corpse on request.

He had a considerable knowledge of anatomy himself and always attended my anatomical demonstrations there, so you can see that being an anatomy press professor was a slightly different occupation that it is is now, and the length that a student had to go through to actually see specimens of human anatomy.

So when was this, this was a sixteenth century.

This was five hundred years ago.

And here are some of the images you've seen some of these so notice that the body is displayed in kind of these life like forms rather than anatomical position.

So who was making these woodblock print artists, they had a different take on the body.

So here is an example of an error.

The galen found excuse me that the salient found this was a misrepresentation of human anatomy.

The gala nde had promulgated for eight hundred years from studying apes rather than human.

So what's the problem here ?

And obviously the clavicle isn't swung laterally.

But that's just show us this this anatomy.

So hopefully you've written down here rectus ab dominus oh, yeah, breakfast of dominance we know attach is here on the costal cartilage is and on this i floyd process.

So apparently in the primate that galen looked at, he observed something that looked more like that.

So.

There was an inn rebirth of the spirit of inquiry in the renaissance.

So if you were a scholar or a rich person and you didn't, have the internet where did you go to learn cool stuff ?

Well, you went teo a public anatomy dissection, so there were staged at universities of the time.

Major universities public spectacles in january when it was chilly.

And there were actual buildings constructed called anatomy theaters, in which there would be a dissection and a lecture from a learned anatomy professor talking about philosophy of how the body works because they didn't know how it worked at this point, leonardo thought the nerves were hollow so that your animal spirit could flow through them and innovate your muscles.

They didn't know physiology at the time, so there would be philosophical discussions trying to fit theology concepts of how the universe worked onto the anatomy that was observed so here are some examples in padua there's an anatomy theatre, and you can see how people would stand around the edges and watch and listen to this and also in bologna.

Here's another one so these he's still exists both of these right universities at the time.

Do we do anything like this today, and if you've been to a body world success, pit you know.

Still, there is that isn't the body cool kind of a sense of let's put the dissected body into a museum and look at it.

So we knew gross anatomical structures can see with the naked eye by the middle of the sixteenth century.

That's for sale is fifteen middle of fifteen.

Hundreds, uh, so are illustrations they're getting better, say laces were wood blocks, but a technique of copper engraving came along.

So now the drawings could be reproduced, and they could be reproduced in great detail.

We had the printing press we were actually looking at nature rather than imagining nature as a source of information.

But we didn't know anything yet about intellectual property rights, so you could take this alias his book and just copy it plagiarize it.

You can translate it into another language and here we have a dramatist translating it.

Don't know if that damages knew anything about anatomy when doing that.

So a great deal of excitement about sharing these ideas about anatomy and as we move into the eighteenth century you khun see that depictions of anatomy are still very much related to the human body in movement.

Here's a tricky one with a mere showing an exploded view.

Oh, speaking of an exploded view, leonardo was studying at a architecture.

At the same time.

He was studying anatomy, so he was the first one to section a skull and show us a skull in different plane.

He was the first one to explode and to open up a joint and show us that so his scientific mind he was applying what he has learned from architecture and mechanics to his study of anatomy.

Okay, so we can attribute this this type of multiple viewpoints viewpoints to leonardo's work.

Here's a nice painting by rembrandt in the seventeenth century showing a dignitary chyme demonstrating anatomy to others doctor talk, but who were these bodies that were getting dissected.

Still, this was criminals.

This was poor people.

This were people whose bodies were died without being claimed in hospitals.

Anatomy was not something that was aspired to being a nada.

Mai's dhe was thinking of a punishment.

And you can see that here and there's the professor not doing hands on work in this image number of the day.

The number of the day is fifteen forty three one, thousand five hundred forty three.

That is the year that sailor has published his book fifteen forty three so if there's not a supply of corpses.

How do you as a medical student learn anatomy ?

So here we are in england, henry, the eighth allowed a few people legally a few bodies legally into medical education again criminals.

This did not satisfy the need of medical students to learn something about anatomy, so thus is born grave robbing body snatching digging up resurrecting dead bodies to be sold to medical schools chyme so that bodies were available for dissection so you've been to beautiful cemeteries and often.

There are fences around, particularly particular families vaults.

That's from this time.

Let's protect our ancestors our bodies so they're famous cases of murders that were actually committed in order to obtain the high priced fresh bodies.

For example, a famous one was in scotland.

This robert knox rrna had a proprietary medical school, so he's shoving three hundred students a year through his medical school.

He needs a lot of bodies, and so a couple of individuals burke and hare who are owned a boarding house chyme supplied him with some individuals.

But if you passed out from drinking too much, you might not have picked a good place to do that.

Burke and hare might have helped themselves to your death so that they could sell your body so burke actually was hanged and then his body was dissected just to rub it home that this was a really bad thing he had done.

It happened in america, not just over there.

There were resurrection ists in this country as well.

And there actually was a big riot in new york city in the eighteen hundreds protesting, huh ?

This practice, so sometimes in order to get into medical school, your tuition was bringing a body with you, so there was a lot of angst about where these bodies were going to come from for dissection and a black market unfortunately for obtaining them.

So guess who figured out that there needed to be a legal way to obtain body our country.

And in fact, massachusetts was the first one the first state to legalize anatomy, and it was followed around the world by others.

So eighteen.

Thirty one was massachusetts first law, but bodies snatching continued.

So when was the university of michigan found it.

Eighteen seventeen two hundred years ago and was her medical school at the university of michigan.

No, so was their body snatching here.

So i have put a link for you in the module.

You could read about, um, what went on here at michigan related to body snatching, and i think that's related to this question right here.

So chyme anyway.

You congest skip ahead and answer what i read about your university in that link.

It doesn't take long.

It's interesting.

Okay.

So of course, you have all checked the medical school.

Okay, so what did medical school look like back ?

Then will mostly men mostly man in shirts and ties hate to think what that laundry looked like and chyme, and i'm doing some cadets dissection on a wooden table, not the nice stainless steel ones that we have now.

This was certainly not something a lovely young woman would d'oh and so we get our first woman medical graduate chyme in the mid nineteenth century in in new york.

And there's a question.

Okay, so we are one hundred fifty years out at this point.

So what has happened since then ?

And we had we've seen thus aliases text.

We've seen drawings but along comes gray of the original grey's anatomy fame, and he published a textbook that really where he used two sections.

Some of the sale issues to sections to, but he's really illustrating in a different way structures than what you've seen.

The force we don't have lovely body positions.

Now we just have focus on this.

These drawings are really designed to help you in the dissection room where you're focused on a particular region.

So grey's anatomy has been around since the middle of the nineteenth century.

Grant followed up.

You can still buy grants atlas of anatomy first published in nineteen forty three.

This is the one i used when i dissected in graduate school, and he even went a step further.

He took photographs and then these photographs were used as the basis for the drawings and you get a different sensibility here because of that technique.

So while we're here, what do we see ?

Here is the nice extensive hood or the extensive expansion the long finger flexor tendons and here you can see that palmer appa neurosis that paul maris longest attach is too.

So nobody has yet made an atlas of cross sectional anatomy.

Why would they well ?

I mean we have leonardo doing some dissection sze to try to give a sense of the three dimensional relationship of muscles.

But the first book of cross sexual anatomy late nineteenth century was based on frozen sections of a child now.

Why is that was there were their freezers in eighteen, eighty probably needed a nice house to freeze a small body child, nice small workable size frozen, then sliced and then drawings made.

Okay, so that's it the beginning of the twentieth century.

First time we're getting books dedicated to cross sectional anatomy when i was in graduate school plastid nation didn't exist yet so whole cadavers were, huh ?

Plastid was poured around them and then they were section and so they were encased in plastic.

That's what i looked at for a cross sexual anatomy em in graduate school, and then when i was in graduate school, new imaging becomes available right for the first time.

We've got seti's and ultrasound images m r eyes are getting invented at this point, so we can look inside the body without destroying it.

For the first time late twentieth century, we could make these images, but how's a physician supposed to know what's what you know how hard it is to look across sections ?

How are they supposed to learn it ?

So now there's a demand to start learning cross-section alot anatomy.

Because for the first time we can image inside a body so plastination is invented.

This is what you've handled in the in the lab by german contra von hagens and with plastination.

The actual organic matter is replaced with a plastic rather than just embedding a cadaver in plastic so that you can handle them even without gloves as you've done in the lab.

And some of you have had the treat of seeing some of these beautiful dissection sze inspired by vesalius really.

Okay, so now we not only can image the body, but we can make virtual anatomy with you've seen that in the anatomy large table if you have a holo lens you can actually look a three d representation k-channel virtual representation of the human body so the first data set actually in the university of michigan was involved with this was the year my daughter was born in nineteen eighty eight so several universities include the university of michigan and n i h got together and made run took an individual who i was on death row and immediately after his death he was frozen.

His body was frozen and section, so there was the physical it's life of his body had physical slices of his body.

Head to toe.

He was also scanned with a ct scan and emery.

So now we have multiple modalities that could be put together.

And that data set.

It was the first one that was publicly available and actually some of the apse you might look at on your i patter iphone might use this data set since that time.

There are some propriety proprietary data sets that have been created, and there is a female data set that has been added to this visible human project out there.

This is late twentieth century.

So this is where you are and you're going forward with your anatomy in the future.

You're probably going to have access to really nice three d virtual anatomy to work with you'll have to make the decision yourself do you need to touch it you need to see it in three d or are these three deeper representation is going to be adequate as you go forward in your careers that's going to be an interesting question that i am sure you are all going to be up against if you need some post semester laughing, this is the book for you.

This is really funny.

This is book called stiff.

It's about all of the uses of cadavers now features the plastination lab at u of m, which is since closed.

It features a lab at wayne state with cadavers use discretion test dummies anyway.

It's really funny, and there's a little excerpt of it.

That's also available for you in the module.

So don't overlook that that's it for the course, we've talked about what's gonna be on that exam already.

It's been a wild ride.

This semester with great craft.

Thank you for seeing it through to the end and good luck with everything that you have to get through in the next week or two.

I'll see you on monday or on wednesday, the twenty