For those of you who aren't here.

Oh, i'm very loud.

I'll send around a link to the survey so you can print it out.

Fill it out yourself.

I'll have it in class again on wednesday.

Ashley, i need to hear from you about what you think about great craft and how it could be changed.

Improved.

We're doing a survey.

We're doing a survey this morning, so if you can grab one and fill it out, that would be great.

There are several options for turning it in.

Easiest one is to leave it behind today.

Okay, let's give this two more minutes and then i'll start talking.

For those of you coming in, we're doing a survey.

So what i'm going to do with these surveys is scooped them up and hand them to someone who will type up what you've written and cola your answers.

And then when i'm finished grading, i will ask that person to give it to me so that i could forward.

With your suggestions.

Okay, let's get started.

Last time, what we did was talk about how muscles control movement acting either concentra, clea or eccentrically or isometric lee.

And important in that discussion was us figuring out when the brain might have turned muscles on.

Because, of course, we know from movement alone which muscles might be lengthening or shortening.

But we don't know about concentrate or e centric action unless we know if the muscles have been actually activated by the nervous system.

So what we did last time was to come up with a rule, assuming that just gravity was acting besides muscles and then figuring out which muscles the brain must turn on in order to control movement.

In a world where the only other force acting is gravity.

In the real world, there are other forces besides gravity, that muscle's my that the brain must consider before activating muscles.

And so we're going talk about the consequences there.

Some of those other force is in control of locomotion in control of human walking.

That's the job today.

So we're going teo import data gathered using electro my ah graffiti.

That is a way to measure muscle electrical activity during movement, using electrodes typically placed on the surface of the body on the skin to pick up those electrical signals.

Of course, one can implant electrodes into muscles using wire electro my ah graffiti as well.

But we're going to talk about surface e m.

G in order to find out how muscles control movement during walking.

So here we go.

So i guess we're just going to consider a question left over from last time.

To warm up a little bit muscles that generate extensive torque.

Translate that statement into whether those muscles are flexors or extensive.

Sirs, given that the soap his muscles generate extensive torque, and then you can answer the question.

If you've just walked in, there is a survey that you confined somewhere to feel out.

Or jerry go.

Okay, first job of the day.

Answer this question on what we got.

You think that muscles generate extensive to torque can act eccentrically during flexion.

So what do we know about muscles generate extensive torque.

By definition, they are extensive.

The only kind of a muscle that khun generate extensive torque is an extensive muscle.

So now that we know that we're talking about extensive muscles, we know that extends her muscles can act eccentrically during flexion if they're turned on if they're activated when the joint movement is flexion, they are acting eccentrically.

Can extensive sir's act concentra clea during flexion ?

No, because extensive will be lengthening during flexion.

Therefore, if they're activated, they would be acting eccentrically as a says can act east centric lee during extension ?

No, because extensive er's shortened during extension, so they never, under any circumstance could be acting eccentrically because they're always going to be shortening during extension.

So it's a little bit of a brain teaser.

That question the point here is to understand what kind of muscles make extensive tour and then considering can extensive ever shorten during.

Election.

No can extend, sir shortened during extension, yes.

Okay, so that little memory of last week, we're now going to put aside and start talking about walking.

We can't talk about how muscles control movement during walking unless we know what walking iss.

So walking is repetitive.

It's cyclic.

It repeats over and over again.

So if we know one gate cycle, we know them all.

So that's where starting out today is defining what is one gate cycle.

And typically, a gate cycle is defined from he'll strike to ips a lateral heel strike and has shown up here it's being defined by right heel strike and then all of the events when feet touch the ground or leave the ground until the subsequent right heel strike.

So during that cycle, the right foot is on the ground, and then the right foot is off the ground until it strikes again.

So we talk about a stance phase for that right leg when the right foot is still on the ground and a swing phase when it swings through to the start.

The next gate cycle.

So, um, what's the other foot doing ?

Well, this right foot is striking, and then after that it will comes flat.

On the ground.

There's a middle of stance and then heel comes off.

Tow comes off and we're swinging.

How much of the time do you think in a gate cycle is spent in single support, meaning there's just one leg on the ground at a time.

He'll strike swinging through with the other leg.

Now i'm on one leg and swinging through with this one.

This is just a guess.

Maybe an informed guest guests, if you prepared for class.

Okay, so let's see what you've got.

You are thinking, oh, it's either twenty percent or forty percent.

And in fact, it's eighty percent if i add up both right and left lake.

So, yes, forty percent of the gate cycle.

I'm standing on my right leg, but forty percent of the gate set cycle.

I'm standing on the other leg.

So if you have the two.

Forty's up its eighty, so the forty percent people here were we're good if i was talking about just one of the legs.

Okay, so let's look at a gate cycle.

This is an important one.

This is one i need you to know something about.

So we were talking about this, right stands face.

So here's right.

He'll contact, and here's the right stance until it's right toe off.

Let's look at what the left lake is doing.

The left leg at wright field strike.

Both feet are on the ground.

Ten percent later is toe off of the left leg.

I'm sweet, so this is ten percent.

I'm swinging through with my left leg.

Until he'll contact, he'll contact of the other leg.

In this case, the left leg is that fifty percent.

When you hear somebody walking down the hall, you hear click, click, click, click, click.

What you're hearing is hell strikes, and it's even fifty percent fifty percent, fifty percent, fifty percent.

But there is thiss ten percent overlap between the two legs when you're walking.

If you're a race walker that overlap, time goes to nothing so that one foot leaves the ground.

Justus, the other one strikes.

But in normal walking, i've got ten percent overlap.

So at the start of stance, phase zero percent at ten percent, the left comes off at fifty percent.

The left contacts at sixty percent.

The right toe comes off.

So i've got sixty percent of this gate cycle spent in stance, not fifty percent as you might expect because there's this overlap.

So here's what i need you to know.

Zero, ten percent, fifty percent, sixty percent, one hundred percent zero percent.

Right heel strike, ten percent left toe off, fifty percent left heel strike.

So that leaves me with my right single support being forty percent.

Overlapped ten percent here in the middle.

Then i have forty percent with just the left leg on the ground when the right leg is swinging through.

So that's what we call the contact of answer the foot fall events in the gate cycle.

So why am i taking you through this ?

Because we're going to consider forces that the ground might contribute to what muscles have to do during stance phase.

And then we're going to consider some other forces inertial forces that might be act.

It might be important in control of swing phase.

Okay, so here are the joint ankles.

During walking from zero percent, he'll strike.

Here's a red line showing the end of stance at sixty percent and then here swing phase.

And what i would like you to do is to tell me what's happening.

Let's see in particular positive angles.

So when the ankle, when these curves air going up, getting more positive, what direction is that ?

Is it reflection as it extension ?

Is it plant reflection is a door see flick shit.

If you came in late and you see one of these, this is a survey i'm ask you to fill out.

This is a job two of the day job one was figuring out what those foot contact events were that defined dance and swing.

Job, too, is what are the joints doing during a gate cycle ?

And then job three is going to be how the our muscles controlling those joint movements.

So you have decided hip flexion is positive.

Deflection is positive and ankle dorset flexion is positive and you are so correct.

So let's talk about that.

Here it is labeled for you, so let me just demo.

Let's start with the hips.

Here i am at he'll contact now what happens ?

My hip extents and in fact we see the curve going negatively.

So that's extension of the hip.

So you're correct.

Positive is up now.

What's happening at the knee ?

I hit the ground and then my knee softens a little bit of yields.

It flexes a tiny bed, extends and then flexes bigly.

If that's a word before it extends at the end of swing phase and then the ankle is confusing, to say the least.

Here i am, and he'll strike was the first thing i do put my foot flat.

That's a movement.

Plantar flexion, little bit of plant reflection to plant my foot.

Then i roll over this planted foot.

That's dorsey flexion, then push off big, big, big plant reflection.

And then i pick up my foot to swing through.

So those are the movements on dh.

Let's move on to three.

What's controlling that ?

So here is the hip joint.

You see the contact events upstairs there and i have labeled the movements of the hip for you.

Basically, it looks like the hippest, basically extending during stance and flexing during swing.

And here are some graphs that show you mean and standard deviation over a whole bunch of people of electrical activity of these muscles.

So let's look at bloodiest.

Maximus.

This is our hip extent, sir.

And what this says is there's a big burst of activity right around when the foot's contacting the ground weights, getting loaded onto that lower leg and then a little bit of activity.

Not much so looks like claudius maximus is active.

During the length of this bar.

So here's the simplified version of that curve over there.

It's saying claudius maximus is active.

Big peak.

About this percentage of the gate site now.

Louis maximus is an extensive search.

What is the joint doing ?

It is extending during that time.

So what do we say about claudius maximus ?

It's acting con centric.

Lee to control joint movement in early stance.

Con centric is indicated by gray.

Let's consider the hip flexors and i've shown a leo.

So as there unfortunately, i don't have a leo.

So as mg signal for you over there.

But it looks like there's a big burst at thes flexors need to be active at the end of stance and at the beginning of swing.

So what's going on there ?

Stance.

What's what's happening here ?

Gravity is going to keep wanting me to extend my hip.

So i turned on my affleck, sir, before i'm finished with hip extension to slow down, to decelerate that extension and turn the joint movement around to flexion so i can pick up my leg.

So the flexor turns on while the joint is still extending to decelerate extension and then finally to accelerate the limb into the flexion direction.

So we have a leo.

So as acting e centric lee and then concentrate clea around this transition from stance to swing dark means east central.

So it's turned on.

But the joint movement changes from extension deflection.

So we call the action first e centric and then concentrate you there.

And here so little.

Now in this demo, little light bulbs go on.

This is old technology, but i like this video because the light goes on to tell you when the muscles activated and so we're going to see him do some little manipulation, a little movements and then those light bulbs.

Yes.

What ?

Okay, so that arrow that's popping up from the ground is showing you the direction of the ground contact forces, the ground reaction forces that will make more sense to you when you take movement.

Science three.

Thirty.

Those air some of the other forces.

Right ?

It turns out that that concepts going be really important.

No.

Here comes the e centric hip flexor activity.

The hip is extending and those flexes air on this is e centric and then when we move in teo come on.

They're those hip flexors.

Okay, so what do you do with that movie ?

No, whatever will help you.

Some of you are familiar with ground reaction forces.

If you have an engineering background already, and the's movies will help you to understand the torques.

If some of that language is confusing to you, don't bother with it, right.

This is an explanation of some of those other forces that are active.

So if you had to say right now, what best describes a leo, so is activity during gate.

How would you describe it ?

This is how i'd like you to know muscle activity for the last exam.

Not what percentage of the gate cycle.

Dizzy leo.

So, as turned on.

But basically, do you know what it's action is ?

And when is it performing those actions ?

So you have said here that a leo.

So as his activity during gate as a hip flex er is too b east centric and then concentrate.

And that's happening at the end of stance and beginning of swing.

That's the level i want you to understand this.

Okay, so here's a little picture of a walking skeleton and we can see a leo.

So as and that shows us the hip flexor when it turns on, and now we'll see glorious maximus.

Turning on there at the beginning of stance.

He'll strike, he'll strike.

So what happens if for some reason you can't turn on your glorious maximus, you have a paralysis or some kind of, uh, your apathy and you can't generate hip extensive torque with your bloodiest maximus.

What will your gate cycle look like ?

And here is a pt student telling yeah.

Okay, that's what it looks like now.

Apps, apps, apps up, soft off, please.

Okay, so what ?

What has he just showed us the damage to the nerve to glue these maximus.

Somebody can't turn it on.

So if a person can't generate sufficient gloomiest maximus tipp, ex tenser torque, how do they compensate ?

Let gravity do it.

If you hang your center of mass behind your hip joint, gravity is going to be generating a hip, extensive torque so you don't need your musculature.

And so the lurch he's talking about here is an active compensation.

So actually, it's going to be all about the hip flexors.

Then gravity takes care of the extensive torque.

Now i turn on this, these flecks er's to haul this trunk forward for the rest of stance.

Okay, so the hip joints easy.

Let's move on to something.

Not quite azizi.

The double hump of the need.

The knee has foothills and high country.

In stance.

There's a little a little flexion extension cycle and then a great big flexion extension cycle in swing.

So that's what's shown here.

And let's talk first about what the vast eye muscles are doing.

The uni articular, the extensive is big burst right here at the beginning of stance.

And why is that burst occurring to control this little bit of yield ?

This little bit of softening of the knee so we don't want to slam our knee joint into contact with the ground.

We allow a little bit of flexion, only it's hard to see.

There's not a lot of it.

You see it, if you don't have it, a stiff me gates.

And so what gravity would do is collapse shoe onto the ground unless you turn on those quads.

Generate some the extensive torque, acting eccentrically to allow a little bit of two to absorb some of this energy during the yield and then to extend the knee joint back to full extension.

So that's a very important e centric con centric activity by the neeiix dancers there at the start of stands face.

Hands.

Strings ?

Well, we might expect hamstrings to turn on to general rate this big flexion.

But that doesn't look like it's happening nothing.

No muscle activity is needed to generate that big flexion.

And why is that ?

Because i've taken my thigh and flexed it, which has consequences for the body segment behind it.

I am not turning on any risk musculature, and yet my wrist is moving wildly up here.

Those air passive forces, those our inertial forces because the thigh is moving forward has consequences, namely collection and then extension.

Vinnie, a whip like action there, totally passive, don't need any muscles at all.

What we need the muscles for is to slow down that extension as the lower leg is thrown into extension because of this this emotion.

So we actually turn on our hamstrings to break or decelerate, then the extension.

He's flexor torque to slow down.

Then the extension at the end of swing, not what you would expect it all.

It's very important.

That's why.

No, there are frictional breaks built into prostheses for above knee amputee so that your knees don't get mechanical.

Knees don't get broken in this swing through a frictional break, we with intact lower leg knee joints.

We use hamstrings, so that is just totally surprising.

And we see hamstrings acting together, slowing down knee extension while providing the extensive tour.

Watch this movie on your own.

Teo, help you understand some of these items.

And we'll see.

Hamstrings active at the end of swing here, green means turned on.

And there the quadriceps turning on during at that initial flexion of the knee right after contact.

What happens if you do you not have access to your knee ?

Extent, sir.

Strength for some reason or not.

Here.

We're gonna watch this physical therapist teaching her class and you're.

Yeah, okay.

Please do this at home.

Lean forward, soft quad.

Lean back, hard quad.

So this is movement at the trunk at the hip joint.

These muscles are supposedly controlling the knee.

So what is your trump position have to do with the knees ?

Well, if i lean backward like this, gravity will send me down, pulling my knees and deflection.

So i need to turn on my quads so i don't fall if i lean forward.

Gravity is sending my knees passively into extension so they're not turned on.

So you can guess what you're going to do if you can't generate me, extends her tork.

What do you going to do with the beginning of the stands face ?

And let's see if that's correct.

So work no.

Yeah.

Zombie walk march here, quadriceps insufficiency.

Okay, so you can see that if you have quadriceps, you know, julius maximus issue and a quadriceps issue, you're gonna have a little bit of a problem deciding what to do because we saw the quadriceps.

You saying you're trump back and he'll strike with the quadriceps insufficiency.

You send your trunk forward.

Two passively provides that the extensive tour.

Okay, so what do the hem strings do during the gate cycle ?

When are they active ?

What is the joint motion when they are active ?

Is it a grey bar or a black bar ?

At the knee.

We're talking about the meat.

Wouldn't do one more joint.

Then we're going to look at a case study.

Okay, here we go.

And we have whoa! About even here.

But, of course, what the hamstrings air doing is providing flexor tour when then he is extending at the end of swing.

So that's e centric at the end of swing.

Okay, so we need to talk about the ankle and the ankle.

Like the knee has two cycles to plant reflection.

Dorsa, flexion, big plant reflection and followed by dorset flexion cycles.

So the first thing we have to talk about is that initial planter reflection movement.

This dip right here.

Plant reflection to plant your foot flat on the ground there in the first ten percent of the cycle labelled as p f for plant reflection.

And so what's the muscle act activity there ?

Tibi.

Alice anterior has a big burst right at the beginning of the gate cycle, it turns out happy, alice.

And you're here.

The dorset flex, sir, is controlling the placement of the foot on the ground.

If t a didn't do that, you'd have something called foot slap where the witches falls onto the ground.

So surprise.

Surprise tippi ellis anterior.

He's centric action to control, to slow down what gravity would do to the foot in placing it.

Then less surprising is that we turn on our plantar flexors to push.

Against the ground by planter flexing to push us forward.

But those planter flex er's turn on while we're still dorsey flexing the body is behind this contact point.

It passes over, so but it's still dorsey flexing the planter flexes air, turning on, grabbing onto that posterior leg and decelerating dorsey flexion until they finally accelerate in the plant reflection direction.

So they're grabbing on with all of their might to keep you from falling down like i did when i ruptured my plant.

My cal cranial tendon fell down because there wasn't planter flexor tour to slow down that tibial rotation interior.

Slow down the shank and then generate plant reflection.

So we have, like a leo.

So as like the flexes at the hip, first eccentric and then concentrate.

Tbl.

Centerior comes on again because you don't want us.

You don't want teo stub your toe when you're swinging through, you need to dorsey flex so your toes clear the ground.

If any of you have purchased a pair of shoes that air point ear or maybe a little big half a size bigger than normal because they were on sale, you might have tripped over your toes.

And that's because our brain knows how to predict this clearance quite well.

So we actively dorset flex.

This white just means isometric.

Just holding it there in that position.

Joint ankle isn't changing ppl's anterior still on, so that's just isometric.

So then here's another video.

You khun watch.

This could help, you understand, with respect to those ground reaction forces, how the why we need those muscles to turn on when they do.

So i called it.

So we've got slapped foot at the beginning of stands face.

If you can't control your tibia, lt's anterior.

And also, if you can't turn it on, you get something called drop foot, which is this hanging down foot during swing face.

Thisyou might see in the clinic a lot if you are working in a stroke clinic because loss of control of tibby else anterior something that could happen quite often with a stroke or, as in the case of my father, because of spinal stenosis and impingement on some of those final nerves, he lost the ability to control his tibia.

Ellis anterior.

I went home one spring break so my dad and said, whoa, he's got a foot drop.

We went to the doctor and he ended up getting a really nice orthe assis tell his spine healed so that he wouldn't trip over this plantar flexed foot during swing and fall down.

What is she up ?

So will we see her face in this video ?

Droplet.

Okay.

So if you i actually you should probably do these things to help you remember, when the muscles are active, i strongly encourage you to mime and exaggerated gate cycle so you can remember what the joint movements are.

And to talk through that when muscles are activated.

When you're doing that, that's really the best way to to learn this.

Okay, so what is tippi ellison tear the dorset flexor do during gate.

Who would have known tbl centerior was so important during the gate site.

Some of you have started to look at muscle activity during walking as i'm reading your literature reviews and you can begin teo, which, by the way, have been very nice on and you can begin to see just how complicated control of movement is, and thus many people's careers are spent in this area.

Good.

Help out sixty for sixty percent spent in the stance phase.

Let's talk about frontal plane motion.

Early on, when we watched that first old timey movie with the light bulbs, there was some discussion of hip abductors and add doctors.

And it turns out that control of lateral till during single support is a big deal.

And why is that ?

A big deal ?

Because the pelvis is it is attached to this massively heavy upper body.

So any time you accelerate this massively heavy upper body, it's going to take energy, and that is literally costly.

So here we have an example of someone who is maintaining their level in this case during running on a treadmill.

But you can see how the pelvis on the right is much closer to level than the pelvis on the left, the pelvis on the left, that right hip.

That stance leg is abducting, so the pelvis is dropping to the side opposite to the stance leg.

That means that runner's gonna have to pick up that pelvis in the next stance.

That's gonna cost energy.

That person's not could be able to run this long, so that's a problem in walking when you, you know, insufficient strength in your abductors to control the level, the lateral tilt nous of the pelvis forty percent of the time on one leg and forty percent of the time on the other leg when you're walking.

So there is a very characteristic pattern that you see called trend ellensburg gate.

And that's when somebody leans there, trunk over and you know what leaning your trunk over we'll do.

We've seen how it helps the needy ex dancers when you lean forward and it helps the hip extensive when you lean back.

Now, if you lean to the side of the standing leg, what's happening ?

Gravity is doing the job the abductors used to do.

Gravity torque is now abducting your hip for you.

So if you have weak abductor's, you get this characteristic tossing of the trunk to one side during walking.

If you're in the grocery store, you might see it to one side or you might see it to both sides.

Now why is that ?

Well, it turns out that if you have a painful, arthritic hip, what hurts your hip is if you activate your abductors.

For the reasons we saw earlier compresses, your hip joint of your hip joint hurts from arthritis.

When the compressive loads are high, you're going to avoid doing that.

So you avoid doing that if you have a painful hip by not turning on your abductors and then using so essentially giving yourself abductor weakness.

So in the grocery store, you might see older people who maybe have arthritic.

Who are adopting that gate pattern, too, to unload their joint.

Or if someone is really a piece, they might actually have insufficient abductor strength to manage the weight of their trunk.

So you see this a lot ?

Okay.

So when you see trend ellenberger gate, are you leaning towards the affected or you leaning away from the affected hip ?

Affected hip, meaning weak abductors.

And this is counter intuitive because in fact, you lean towards the affected him.

You think that oh, if i'm leaning towards thie weekend side.

I'm putting more weight on that side.

No, your weight doesn't change.

It's all about the abductor's not turning on.

So you lean toward the side with the weak abductors so that gravity can perform abduction toward yep, glorious media's used to do.

Okay, so given all of that, here we go.

We see claudius media's turning on here in stance.

Heading towards single support.

So as you load onto that lim claudius media's turns on on the side of the stance leg to prevent your pelvis from falling into abduction because your body weight would pull you down this way into abduction like we saw in the runner so bloodiest media's turns on to prevent that very important in walking.

Okay.

So now i have a case study to show you.

This is really interesting.

Uh, this was video made here in pm and our physical medicine and rehabilitation.

And we're going to first listen, tio, this individual's description of his symptoms and we'll see emmanuelle muscle test to see where he might be weak, and then we're going to see a movie.

Useful.

I can't do this.

Heavy bowling ball flex er even more flexor torque.

Okay, so what do we take away from this history so far ?

Where does he have a weakness ?

Which muscle group ?

He can't get a spare tire out of his car.

What does he need to be able to do that at the hip ?

Hip flexors or hip x sensors.

We are, which one ?

Ex dancers.

Thank you.

So he has weakness in his hip, extensive er's, and it's a gradual, really slow.

You know, this is years and years ago, and now it's gotten to the point where he's really having trouble moving.

So he's got some kind of a syndrome that is weakening hiss, at least his hip extensive er's.

Now let's look at where else he might be having some muscle weakness.

So this physician is going to be doing manual muscle testing, something you might learn to do in the clinic.

So phil's gonna position the limbs in certain ways and we'll find out what he's testing.

Flexors.

Elbow flexors.

Elbowing stan, sirs.

Testing triceps abductor's.

Seems to have abductor strength.

Now he's going to test medial and lateral rotation strength.

Netflix, sirs.

Plex, sirs.

Makes dancers.

Flexors.

He just said his knee flexes were weak.

Yeah.

Ah, he's going to test knee flex her strength now.

Did you see him activating his gas truck ?

Namie is to help with good deflection there his wake on his netflix.

So he's flexed his knee and he's going to ask him to hyper extend his hip and by flexing his knee, he shortening the hamstrings so that he can isolate bloodiest maximus here.

So the hamstrings air now so short that they can't generate much force or torque.

So we can really focus on he khun separate out bloodiest maximus from the hamstrings in terms of hip extension.

Yeah.

Yeah.

So's palpate trace means he can feel them.

Now he's going to check out those abductors and watch what watch how the patient cheats.

He tries to use his hip flexors.

So he's yes, trying to use his hip flexors rather than his abductors.

Yeah.

Well, look at his back.

Strength now is okay, so he's got some extensive strength.

Yeah.

Okay.

So now what is all that translate to in terms of his ability to walk ?

We know as hip extent, sir.

Weakness.

And we know he has abductor weakness.

Look where his trunk is is very post ear e er.

And is shifting when he walks.

He's shifting his trunk laterally more than you might expect.

Look at how post ear ear that trunk yours.

So he's using that trick.

He's not lurching, but he's just leaving his his trunk post, eerie to his hip joint to create that extensive torque.

Okay, now we're gonna see look at that trunk shift over to the side of the standing leg with his weak abductors.

That's the trend ellenberger position.

So the physician is going to ask him to do something really hard now.

Imagine this.

It turns, it turns out he has some shoulder girdle issues as well.

Yeah.

Is he ?

Look at the winging, so we know it's the radius anterior is involved.

Over.

So he has a syndrome called lim girdle dystrophy, so weakening of the muscles that are controlling his shoulder girdle in his pelvis.

How is he possibly going to do this task when he can't generate hip extends her tour ?

So these accommodations are costing him a lot energetically.

He's totally compensating passively.

There's a neat trick.

You let the chair provide his hip extensive torque for him.

Well, we got a little itch.

And how does it get out of a chair without extensive strength ?

He uses his arms.

Good because austin so his arms are decelerating his trunk seances.

You're going to see it, a little trick that he does here again.

His arms are very important and he's going to use some passive forces.

He's going toe push off his thighs.

He throws trump backwards, really.

Yeah.

So he's a fan of physical therapy on that's helped him with that.

So what this slide previously said.

I believe wass watch these.

I've put in some more videos for youto watch on your own about some of these accommodations for different gait issues, and that's kind of a black, dark note to leave with.

So, anyway, you can watch her.

And i guess i am going to leave you on that black dark note.

So that's muscle action during gate, and you can see that the real world is a little bit more complicated and interesting.

Then the world we saw in terms of muscle action last week.

On wednesday, i am going to talk about the history of musculoskeletal anatomy just for some cultural context to what we have done this week.

If you would like to leave your serve ways where they are, that's fine, or you can leave them in the back.

I really, really, really appreciate your feedback.

Thank you very much.