Alright, good morning.Welcome to Extreme Weather.My name is Perry Samson.I'm a professor in the College of Engineering, Climate and Space Sciences and Engineering Department.And, uh-- and as nature would have it, every time I start this course, some god-awful thing is happening in the weather.And behind me, today, is this-- what's about to happen.Anybody here-- is from New York, Philadelphia or Boston area?Yeah.Write home.They are about to get what we call a 'bomb.'A weather phenomena where a storm forms-- let me just show you this, 'cause it's unusual.Last one like this happened in 1993.So, there's a marine down here in Florida.Watch what happens-- eh, this is the forecast, by the way, of what's going to happen.The storm forms just off the coast of Jacksonville, here; No-- South Carolina, Georgia, et cetera.And slowly, that thing develops into a major storm, coming up the coast.Now, as you will learn over the course of the semester, when we have a low pressure like this, the wind, it flows in a nice counterclockwise way around low pressure.And consequently, here on land, the air is flowing from the north and east.So it gives the storm the kind of name 'nor'easter.'And this nor'easter is gonna come up the coast here, and it's still in its infancy, down by South Carolina.But as it moves north, it gets stronger and stronger for reasons that you will learn in this course.And the blue areas here are snow; the green areas are-- are rain.The yellow is, like, really heavy rain.And you can see that all the way here, from roughly Washington D.C., now up through New York.It-- snow would be happening.And this thing gets closer to Long Island.Long Island is just gonna get obliterated.I mean, it's gonna be-- it looks like major-- major snow here in New York, Long Island, and most of New England, and towards Boston.So this is a huge storm.The pressures inside are-- continue to drop to levels that are remarkably low.In fact, so low that it's not-- it's getting close to being on the scale of a hurricane.It's not quite that bad, but this is a huge, huge storm, with tremendous low pressure there.Very strong winds.Blowing wind-- snow, and heavy snow associated with this.And this is happening Thursday night.Tomorrow night.As that storm comes up the coast, and all the way up into the Canadian provinces.So again, if you have family there, uh, make sure they take pictures.And send 'em to us.We can talk about them here in class, alright?Alright.This is a course that examines extreme weather.And it's not just about, you know, what causes a tornado or a hurricane.The big thing I want you walking out of this course, and able to do, is having a learned conversation-- a conversation informed by evidence.About is, in fact-- are, in fact, extreme weather events increasing in frequency and strength?And, if so, to what degree is that due to climate change?Now, over the course of this semester, I will give you the background-- the underlying science for what causes each of various extreme weather phenomena.And on top of that, we will talk about how the cl-- yes, the climate is changing.Get over it.The issue is: how is that changing climate going to affect various parts of the world in different ways?And how, in particular, is that going to affect extreme weather?And to make this-- bring this home here, I'm gonna show you a video.Alright.Welcome to my course.I'd like to introduce your GSI, Yi-Hsuan.And Yi-Hsuan, you wanna give some-- tell-- a little bit about yourself, here?Let me give you the microphone.Alright, good morning.My name's Yi-Hsuan, and I'm the PhD student in Climate and Space Science.And my research focus is on cloud and the radiation processes in the climate system.So, nice to have you in this class.Thank you.Yi-Hsuan is gonna be your best friend, in this semester.You're gonna be using technology in this class.My class is-- yes, it's about extreme weather, but also about how we learn.And particularly, how we learn science.And so I have, over the years, been direc-- building different kinds of technologies that we could use to help us learn.To go back a long way, in the early-- alright.This is my-- this is my 39th year teaching at the University of Michigan.And I go back a long way.So back in the early '90s, before there was an Internet, I simply wanted to be able to talk about weather, in my 9:00 class, with some accuracy.And so, I had a-- one of my students create a system that allowed me to pull up current weather information anywhere in the world.This is before the internet.Before there was an-- you know, the kind of web that we know today-- was a-- something called a 'Telnet session.'And that thing allowed me to come into class, and be able to talk about the weather in Buffalo at the moment.And I thought this was-- this was the cat's meow.And we had as many as 50 people use that system a week.Then a hurricane came up the East Coast.Hurricane Bob.And it jumped from 50 to 50,000 people that week.I said, 'My God, this network thing could be big someday.'Well, that became something called the 'Weather Underground,' which you may have heard of-- and it might be on your phone, in fact.Came because of this class, years and years ago.In this class, we also created new technology, which is called the 'Active Learning Platform,' that you'll be using this semester.The purpose of it is totally-- as this course is about-- it's-- yes, it's about the science, but it's about communicating science.One to another.Very few of you're gonna walk out of here after this semester, and go into my field, and become a meteorologist.But all you're gonna be voters.And all of you are gonna, potentially, be parents.I want you to be able to explain, in whole sentences, with verbs, and evidence, why this might be happening; why this might not be happening.We're gonna walk outta here hopefully a bit more informed than we were before you came into this course.And I'm here to help us-- help you through that process.Answer questions.I also do-- I'll-- right now, I'll tell you I do take students in May, and I-- we choose certain students, and we go out on the road, and we chase tornadoes.I love my job.I get paid to talk about the weather.And I sit in the van and send these students, in instrumented vehicles, to get as close to a tornado as possible so I can write a paper.Life is good.I truly love my job.And I'm gonna be enthusiastic about this.Here is your syllabus, for this semester.And this is unyou-- probably gonna be unlike any other syllabus that you have had at this younis-- institution.Because it's gonna-- I'm gonna force you to think about how you learn.I want you to be able to acknowledge what your strengths are in learning.The syllabus is all on our Canvas-- on our Canvas web page.And it contains all sorts of information on there, about the office hours.Yi-Hsuan will put his office hours up here, once he's dec-- figured out his schedule for the semester.There's a class schedule on the page, which you can actually see, lecture by a lecture, what I expect to cover.Caveat.This is a course in extreme weather.If there's a storm coming up the East Coast, I'm not gonna go talk about hurri-- you know, uh, lightning.I'm gonna talk about the storm of the moment.So the curriculum will change in response to what's happening in real time.So that-- that schedule is sort of a best guess, but it wou-- can and will change over the course of this semester.Here is the ki-- the course schedule, as it exten-- as I have it at the moment.It's got the topics we're gonna cover each day.What pages in the book are there to be read.Uh, and-- and-- and who's gonna be covering.There's certain days where I'll be on the road, and I have others who m-- who will cover for me.So, you get some background of what to expect.I don't want any surprises during the course of the semester, and nor do you.Grading in this course is... unusual.You're allowed to decide how to get graded.And the way it works is this.There-- there are, first of all, exams.There are three exams.Three hourly exams.Now, the default value is that 75 percent of your grade is gonna be for your grades on the exam.But, at 11:00 today, you're gonna get an email which invites you, now, to choose how you wanna get graded.And you can choose whether your exams are gonna be worth 60 percent, or 90 percent of your grades.And anywhere in between; five percent increments.I've had daughters who were very, very bad at exam-taking, and might choose a lower number.I have others-- children, who are extremely good at exam-taking, and said, 'Screw it.I was gonna put 90 percent, and not do much else.'That's fine.Let's be blunt.If you're just taking this course 'cause you think it's gonna be an easy 'A' for you, you're-- then, just go for the 90 percent on the exams, and be done with it.Homework.Homework is anywhere from zero to 20 percent.Notice: 'zero.'So if you don't feel like you need to do any homework, fine.You decide.Whether you need that or not.Uhh-- da-da-da, da-duh.And we have in-class activities.Now, I ask a lotta questions in class.It's called 'metacognition.'I want you to know what you don't know.So I will pose lots of questions-- usually like three or four per class.And the whole objective of that is for me to tell you, 'Here's the kinds of questions I expect you to be able to answer, in the future.'Wink, wink.Nudge, nudge, you know.I'm telling you these are the kinds of questions you're likely to get on the exams.So, you know, I would hope that you'd participate in that.I-- more than hope.I count whether you participate in that.So if I asked, for example, three questions during-- I'm sorry-- four questions in the course of a day, and you answer three, you get a '75' for the day, alright?So the system keeps track of if you're answering questions, and I'll go-- get into that system in a moment here.It allows me to ask all kinds of questions to you.From multiple choice, to free-response, to image-based questions, to numerical questions.'Rearrange list' questions.I ask a lot of different kinds of questions.In fact, that system-- the Active Learning Platform-- was developed, again, for this course.Because I tried using clickers, in class.And I found that students never used the word 'clicker' in a sentence without the word 'lame.'You know?They understood that most faculty are simply using the clicker to take attendance.And that is lame.So in here, I ask questions that are, like, image-based.'Where on this map would you expect wind speeds to be high?'Or, '...temperatures to be low tomorrow?'And you have to give me a response, and tell me why you chose that spot.So, there's gonna be a great deal of dialogue going on.Even though-- even though, you knew-- you all probably know this already-- this class-- this is probably the last time I will see you half of you.'Cause this class is broadcast live, via cameras in the back here-- it's being broadcast live.So, next cold day, you don't actually have to come to class.You can watch class from wherever you are, and still participate from wherever are, using that system.I'll get there-- get to that in a moment, though.That's gonna be an option for you.But I want you to understand-- that option isn't necessarily in your best interest.What else?Common good.Five percent of your grade.You can't change this.I want five points from you, and these are specific tasks I'm gonna ask you to do over the course of the semester, which are of value to the whole course, and/or value to the research that we're doing in this course about how students learn.So, for example, a survey that you've already been presented with, beginning course survey-- that you get one point for that.There'll be other surveys over the semester.There'll be other opportunities over the semester for you to participate in ways that help the common good of this-- our course.Any questions about what I've done so far-- what we've talked about so far?Every year, I do that.'Any questions?'And nobody.There's never, in the history-- yeah.Oh my God, a question.Oh, thanks for reminding me.The optional final exam.Yes.Over here, that little green box.You get done with the semester-- a third e-- but-- after the third exam, and your grades-- and you're happy with your grades, you are done.I have an optional final exam, at the time of the final exam, that you can take as an option.If you're not happy with your exam grades, and you wanna try to improve them, you can take the final exam.And if you get a higher grade on the final exam than you did on the three hourly exams, we will swap that in.So if your average for these three exams is, say, a 70, and you wind up getting a 75 on the final exam, we use 75 as your grade for those three exams.Does that make sense?I don't care when you learn.I just want you to show me that you've learned, in this course.And you're gonna decide, you know, whether, you know-- and how-- how to be graded.Now, a new thing this semester is in the homework system.One of my disappointments in my previous years teaching this, is there wasn't enough opportunity for writing.There's-- you know, we-- we do these questions, and we have, uh, homework, and then we have exams.But, again, my goal in this course is you're gonna walk out of here being able to communicate about extreme weather events to others.To communicate about climate change, to others.And so, I've-- changing-- the homework system's now gonna embody something-- I'm working with the Sweetland Writing Center, and this semester, you guys are guinea pigs.As guinea pigs, I will be having-- we have something like three or four, mmm-- what do you call them?Adventures, this semester.Where I will propose to you a scenario, where you are going to have to write a few paragraphs explaining some particular situation.You are the writer for the Detroit News.And you have to explain to others what 'chemtrails' mean.And you're gonna do that.And you're gonna write little paragraphs.And then you're gonna have the opportunit-- then you're gonna be presented with paragraphs written by others in the class, that you have to critique.And you're gonna get points for each step along the way.And then, we've hired several students from last semester.Who're gonna be watching all of this, and offering their critiques to you as well.And by the end of this, you fin-- enter your final submission as a goal in learning how to write about science.How to communicate science.I run around the state of Michigan.I'm not-- I'm not actually proud of this.I go to a lot of bars in the state of Michigan.I will freely admit that.And what I do is, we set up shop, and, you know-- adva-- put up notices in advance that say, 'We're gonna talk about climate change.'I went out-- I bought the name on the Internet.I bought the name 'keginar.'I have keginars.And people can come, and they drink a beer, and then we talk about climate.And, you know, you've got a different opinion about what's-- climate is changing, not changing, it's due to the sun, whatever.Bring game.And we have it out over a beer.The whole bo-- point is to for-- foster communication, where it's not just so-- opinions.But what's-- what's the-- what are the facts, and what can we learn from the facts?And can we hear each other?'Cause we're not gonna advance this conversation about climate change and extreme weather unless we can talk to each other.And you're gonna be asked to do that, this semester.Any other questions about the grading scheme?Yup.All those days are Saturdays.Yeah.Okay, ignore the days on here, because apparently I just copied this slide from a previous semester.So, these are Fridays.Just change it by a number.One-- one day.I apologize.I didn't catch that, in my preparation here.Yeah, and this just reminds me.This-- it's called 'Do-It-Yourself Grading.'And you will be offered the place where you can go and o-- do this.And the way it works, is you choose, you know-- there are the re-- madam-- mixem-- madam.Maximum and minimums per category for exams-- 60 to 90 percent.The defaults are this: if you choose not to put-- change, this is what you're gonna work with.And, I'm gonna say this once, 'cause I know three of you are gonna email me, later in the semester.On Canvas, that dumb system can't change your-- weighting for each student individually.So on Canvas, it's gonna have your grades being calculated according to this default value, here.But you're gonna have a little spreadsheet that I've already emailed to you.Or-- it's in your email that you'll get-- in which you can put in your own weighting, and see how you're doing in the class.Understand that Canvas is incapable of each individual student's, um, weights.So that-- that's a place where you're gonna have to keep your own records.Any questions about this?Uh, and there is, uh, Canvas, and you will get this, uh, after class, where you can start thinking about this.You must enter your weights before the first exam.So that's Friday, February-- whatever Friday is in February.February 5th-ish.Before that 10:00 exam, you have to enter your weights.Anything after that does not get looked at.And we take whatever weights you entered last, into the system.And this is just to remind me that-- participation.So I ask four questions-- you answer three; you get a '75' for the day.That's the good news.Also understand, however, that I'm not gonna keep track of whether you come to class, you don't come to class.I don't care about attendance.I-- I intend to treat you as adults.Now, my colleagues and other faculty, worry about you guys having laptops out during class, 'cause you're gonna go off and do ESPN, or, you know, CNN, or Facebook, or whatever.I don't care.If you can do that and not bother the people around you, and still get a good grade in my class, I don't care.But, I'm gonna-- you know, you have to learn time management sooner or later.Why not in college?So you figure it out.Number one.Number two: yes, this course is-- is broadcast, so you don't have to come anymore.You can sit in your jammies at home, and watch class, and participate, and ask questions, and answer questions; do everything that's associated with class.I've been doing research, now, for four years using this technology.And it turns out that if you do that, if you sit home, on average, you get eight points lower grades on exams.I'm just sayin.'Because I know.I take my laptop to faculty meetings for the very reason that I wanna do other stuff, and-- and-- you know, other things are calling my attention.Listening to a webinar in my office, I'm doing other things, and I'm kind of listening to the webinar.So you're not going to be as focused when you're sitting at home.The refrigerator is gonna call your name.'I've got pickles.'And you've got-- you know.You-- gonna go look at that.So, I'm just saying, if you really wanna do well in this course, it pays to come to class.Our research shows that's quite substantially true.But it's your choice.You're adults.You gotta figure out how you're going to learn this course, and what degree you wanna get a grade.Common good points.Again, it's gonna be participation surveys, contribution to shared experiences-- that'll-- be multiple of these.You-- there'll be several of these over the semester.You have to choose-- you have to-- participate in five of them in order to get the five points in this course.Most students usually complete that.And, of course, this Active Learning Platform, on Canvas.Inside of Canvas, there's a button that says, 'Active Learning Platform.'You click that once.And it automatically transfers information into the Active Learning Platform, so then, that system knows that you exist, and you are in this course, and-- and you're registered.And that's all you have to do.You don't have to sign in or anything, it just-- it'll take you into the course, and there you'll see the list of-- the list of courses for this semester.Inside this Active Learning Platform.You will see that-- whether you're watching from home, or you're here in class-- you get three screens.One's-- one screen contains the slides that I've uploaded into the system.So you can move back and forth through the slides during class, or after class.Any movie I show in class, you'll have access to, outside of class.It'll-- we have a camera in the back of the room, there.That'll would be showing, then, what's going on in the room, so if I'm flailing as I am now, then it would show where I'm pointing at.And, it's also sh-- it has what's being projected at the moment.So when you're sitting inside the room here, there's a-- you just-- you can just click this, and get rid of it, 'cause you don't need to see what's being projected, 'cause you're here in the room.It just takes a bandwidth.So, you can get rid of that-- any one of the screens.You can move it-- the screens around.You can decide which screen you wanna have up there.So you can view what's going on in class, but on top of that, there are these buttons on top here.One of the buttons is-- allows you to take notes.Now, there is research out there that shows that taking notes by hand might be a better way to learn.'Cause many people-- that process of going from-- you know, listening to writing it out seems to center your understanding better than, maybe, typing notes.That said, I type my notes because I can't read my handwriting.And maybe others like me, around.And last semester, we had over-- over half the students chose to type their notes.And it has the advantage that your notes, then, are stored in the system.You can walk to any computer, anywhere; you can have access to your notes.First of all.And I'll show you another advantage of that in a moment.But you can take notes there.Now, this whole system, I will say, was built because I-- I kind of started it, just trying some things in classroom.And then, students in other courses came, and said, 'Well, it'd be great if you added this, and you added that.'So, one of the other parts of the system is a button here, where you can pose questions.And I want you to use this.'Cause this has just been impressive to me.You're able to ask questions digitally as class is going on.And Yi-Hsuan is gonna have the unhappy position of trying to explain what the heck Perry was talkin' about.'What he meant to say was...'Basically, spin control.So you have questions as class is going on.He will be answering the questions in real time.You will see all the questions being submitted.You can answer each other's questions.You can see any responses that Yi-Hsuan is offering back to you.But you don't see who asked the question.And I do that for a reason.I want you to learn to ask questions.I want you to ask questions.I want you to participate.The more you participate in this class, the more you will learn.Our research shows that.So ask the questions.Look at the responses.And learn from each other's questions.And be fearless about asking questions.Please understand that both Yi-Hsuan and I will know who's asking questions, so don't do stupid things.But beyond that, be fearlessly asking questions, and we will try to keep up with that.And that's why I laughed before, by saying, 'Any questions?'No one ever-- rarely-- rarely, do I get questions verbally asked.But with this system, last semester-- and it's sobering for me.I've been teaching tha-- i-- 39 years.And I get done with class, and go, 'Any questions?'And there'd be no questions, and I'd go, 'Yes, I just nailed class.Everybody got it.'And it's, you know, my little victory dance in the front of the room, you know.And-- a thee-- like-- I-- I just-- 'I'm God's gift to teaching.'And, then last semester, for example, we had 770 questions submitted over the course of the seme-- how sobering is that?That all these years I've been confuse-- confusing, and I didn't know it.So, don't be confused.If you are-- you got a question, you're sitting at home, you're in class, whatever.Ask the questions, and we'll try to build in the conversation.Another important-- that's you can view questions.Also, you can add bookmarks.You're gonna-- you know.'This slide's important'-- basically, 'I think this is gonna be on an exam.'You can add a bookmark, and it'll add a little-- a note in-- a mark into your notes over here, so you'll be able to go back and see where-- what parts of the class you think were important.And, if you click on any of your notes, it opens up the video of the spot you took the note.How cool is that?So you'll be able to connect between your notes and/or of the bookmarks, back to the spot in the video from class, to see what was going on there, for review.And then, my favorite button.It was called, 'I'm confused.'Basically, 'I don't know what Perry's talking about.What the...'And you click that button, and basically, it marks-- again, it marks your notes, saying, 'I don't-- I'm lost here.'And that keeps the record in your notes, about where you were confused.But it sends a signal to me in the front of the room, and I have a meter up here, literally showing me how many people are confused during class.I may ignore that, 'cause after this many years, I'm pretty sure I know when you're gonna be confused.But it helps me, after class, to see what topics I might want to go over in more detail.Also, inside this Active Learning Platform, one of the-- I suggest to you, is that once you click that-- click that button and come into the system here, there is a-- uh, I think up under that gear up there.Somehow, you can get to the spot that is about your account settings.Inside of this Echo.And you-- what you wanna do there is go in there, and make a password.Bet-- click this; change the password.And what you're doing is you're creating a password for this Active Learning Platform, which allows you, then, to log straight into it, without Canvas.And there's value in that, because you have a lot more real estate than inside the system.Explore that over the next day or so, and log in, create your own password in that system.Also.I'm gonna ask all these questions during class.You can respond in this Active Learning Platform.Understand that that system works on your laptop.It works on your iPad.It works on your Android.It works on your phone.It works on any technical device.If you have a flip phone, you can text your answers in.If your technology is not working, or you just don't want technology, fine.Then you just write your answers down on a piece of paper, and hand them in at the end of class.You'll get credit for your questions.Okay?But participate.The whole thing here is participation.Homework system is this system: 'Course.work.'Those who have taken Stats 250 have seen this als-- already.Coursework allows me to pose questions to you.Inside this system, you'll be responding to various questions.You'll have homework that'll come available at 11:00, right after class today.And you go into the system, and you can complete the homework online.If-- again, if you make homework worth zero percent, then you don't have to get the system.It's up to you.There is a textbook here.'Extreme Weather and Climate.'You can find it online many places.I am only promoting this particular brand-- 'VitalSource'-- for one reason, and that is I have a new experiment going on-- that you guys, again, are guinea pigs in-- where I'm trying to think, 'How do we use technology to help study?'And with this VitalSource link, which I think is like 30 bucks or something for the semester, you have access to some-- a new system I call 'Smart Notes.'And this is where the-- your note-taking in online-- comes helpful.Because I-- because if you take your notes online in that Active Learning Platform, then this system mines everybody's notes in the class, and basically crowdsources them into a list, per lecture.So, on this particular day, 87 students took a note about relative humidity.And, 87 students took a note about absolute humidity, and et cetera.And-- so it gives you basically an idea what's trending in class.What were the topics covered in class today?It also mines what's being said.It's actually transcribing what I'm saying in class here, in real time, which is creepy.And it uses that database, then, to allow us to also look for words-- key words that I might have used, or key words that are in your notes.And from that, makes a list over here.And if you click on the words here, it opens up your textbook to the right page, relevant to what was being discussed in class today.So it's thinking about using artificial intelligence to mine what I say, what you took, what you heard, and build from that a summary that you can use for study.Also-- excuse me, a moment.Yeah.There's the, kind of, transcript it makes for what I'm saying.It allows you to search.And you can search for a particular term in that system.And it'll show you when that term was used, when I use that word in class.And each lecture I use it in.And you go click on this.It'll take you to the video in that spot, in class.So you can go back and review particular, um, information.So it's just thinking about, 'How could we use technology in a large course like this in the future?'And then, it actually opens up your textbook, if you have that VitalSource system, to the appropriate and a responding-- corresponding page.So for Friday, there is reading for Friday.In the textbook.Uh, and complete that beginning survey, that you've already gotten emailed about.There will be a homework due.The homework's not actually due 'till Monday, but, just so you know it's there.Register in this Active Learning Platform, by clicking the button inside of Canvas.And start considering what you're-- how you'd like to have your grades weighted for the semester.Any questions so far?In the old verbal, old-style way.Say it-- say it a little louder?I'm sorry.Oh, okay.Question is whether I would prefer us-- you use the Echo for questions.I would prefer you to ask verbal questions.Let's be clear about that.But, I also know that not everybody is comfortable doing that.And I'll be blunt.In surveys I've done for the past eight semesters, I asked-- and you probably saw, in the beginning survey, 'Are you comfortable answering a verbal question in class?'And it might not surprise you, for the male students in the class, it was like, eh, 40 percent said, 'Yeah,' they're comfortable, and 60 percent said, 'No.'But for the female students, it was less than a quarter.Were comfortable asking a verbal question in a large class.And I didn't know that for all these years.And so, in effect, I've been teaching a class in a way that made for an uneven playing field.My whole goal in the-- asking the digital questions-- i-- that everybody.I want everybody to participate.And if you're not comfortable asking a verbal question, you'd better get comfortable, because later in your life, here, at the University of Michigan, you're gonna have to do that.But right now, right here, maybe you're not comfortable with science.I'm cool with that.I want you to participate.Ask the dumb question.And you're gonna see your questions are no dumber than anybody else's question.Well, a few of them will be.See, I've had some really good ones.But, ask them anyway, 'cause no one's gonna see it was you.But ask the question.And from that pr-- I want you to participate.If you're willing to participate verbally, yes, please do so.I definitely wanna encourage that.Good question.Alright.We only have a couple minutes left, but I'd like to point out that one of the values of being at the University of Michigan is not me.It's not the access to professors.It's the access to each other.You're sitting in a room where the people next to you are probably gonna be the next, you know, lawyer of the year or-- or... who knows what.So it's huge value in you knowing who you're sitting next to.And let me explain-- let me just demonstrate this-- this to you.I want you-- everyone, to close your eyes for a second.Put your-- one arm straight in the air.Alright.Point north.Open your eyes.Yeah, yeah.Uh-huh.Alright.Meet your neighbor now, and defend your answer with them.Alright.Everybody's arm straight in the air again.Point north.Look at that.North is in fact, this way.The whole point of that is simply to-- 'a,' for you to meet somebody.And second, that you learn a great deal through this peer interaction.And if you don't come to class, you won't have the opportunity for that peer interaction as much.And so, I am-- I hope that you'll consider thinking that-- yes, it's cold.It's gonna be miserable.And Friday's gonna be really cold.But there's value in-- in the communal setting here, in terms of learning opportunity.Alright.The next task I have for you-- we've got a few minutes left here.And I just wanna start it this way.I want you to meet the th-- say, at least the three people around you, and learn their names.'A.'And 'b,' exchange, in that process, what was the most interesting weather phenomena you have ever experienced?Go for it.Well, that was interesting.I-- how-- just-- everything just died down there?It just-- conversation's over.Alright.Let's do that.So, I am looking for somebody who's had an experience with tornadoes.Alright.Everybody who had experienced a tornado, raise your hand, right now.Come on, come on, come on.Alright, a few of you.Alright.So I'm gonna pick on you, 'cause you're close, but.What was your experience?What town was that, in 2010?Where is that?Fenton, Michigan.That's north of here, right?Yeah.Alright.And?Destruction in Fenton.Alright, that's a tornado story.I had one in the back of the room here, somewhere.Yes.Reed City?I apologize.I'm from New York, so I don't know-- where is Reed City?Oh, yeah, you're doing that thing.Alright.Yeah.Okay.Alright.And likewise, any... big damage, or...?Alright.Forested area.Alright.Anybody have... ice storm?No ice storm stories?How about lightning?Damage from lightning?Anybody-- anybody hit by lightning?Yeah, one semester I had a guy.He's very slow.Alright, what have we got here?Hurricane Sandy.How many of you-- part a-- Hurricane Sandy?Yeah, we'll talk about that this semester.That was amazing.That was sort of a perfect storm of a-- kind of a hurricane, and a-- and a storm, kinda like the bomb we're gonna have this weekend, coming together into one storm.Amazing stuff.Uh, anybody from the South, and experienced the hurricanes this year?Uh-oh.Your family's in Florida.What part of Florida?Broward County.Alright.That's in the south and east side, right?Yeah, yeah, yeah.Yeah, you were lucky.That-- that hurricane almost-- well, it decided to go up the west coast instead of the east coast.As everybody should evacuate.Yeah, that w-- we'll talk about the hurricanes at some-- some length here.And their potential, and how-- and if-- they might be getting worse with time.I'm also gonna try to impress you that there're actually new technologies, which have just become available in the past six months.We're kinda able to quantify, now, to what degree is a particular storm enhanced by climate change.And these techniques seem to show some promise in giving us a sense of-- of-- Hurricane Harvey, for example, we think was 15 percent more powerful than it would have been in the old day.Because of an-- changing climate.Hurr-- and what have I got?Snowstorms.Anybody?Big snowsn-- you got snowed in.You got plowed under.Pink scarf.You're from Boston.Yeah-- yeah, you're a-- you're about to have your big one.Oh yeah, that's right.Bigger nor'easters on the East Coast are amazing.Again, coming from New York, you kind of expect 'Snow,' with a capital 'S.'Here, we get 'snow.'But there, they get 'Snow.'And-- of-- UP?Any UP'ers here?Ooper?No?Wha?You're just hiding.I know you're here.None?Alright.What did I miss?Hurricanes, tornadoes, lightning, hail, derechos.I mean, this list goes on.Whatever can kill you, we're gonna talk about this semester.And talk about how it's gonna get worse.Alright.I will see you on Friday.