Okay, good morning, everybody. Um, as you can see, I am not Perry. My name is Dr. David Wright. Um, I am filling in for Perry, as he's traveling around in Austin, Texas, eating some very good barbecue right now, which I'm jealous of. But today, we're going to be talking about some energy balance. But as you may have noticed, outside, it was a little slick walking in. I think I saw several people crash their bikes this morning, due to freezing rain, so I want to talk about that real quick. So, what I have here on the screen is a skew-T diagram. You'll be seeing these a lot later on this semester. Don't worry, these are complicated things. You'll understand them at some point. But what I wanted to show you is why is it freezing rain outside, and not snowing or sleeting? So, what we have here is-- twice a day, the National Weather Service likes to launch weather balloons in the atmosphere. And what those are doing is they're measuring temperature and relative humidity at every level of the atmosphere, straight up in a column. And then we post it on these crazy diagrams called skew-T's, so, basically reasons why it's called a 'skew-T' is because your temperature lines-- instead of going up and down vertically, are going at an angle here. And there's a lotta reasons for that. Don't worry about that right now. It's complicated. It's messy. Don't worry. Um, but then on your y-axis here, you have height in the atmosphere in millibars. So remember pressure, as discussed last time, decreases as you go up in the atmosphere. But what we have here is near the surface, this red line is showing you the temperature. The green line is showing you how much moisture's in the atmosphere. And this line right here is our 'zero degrees Celsius line.' So your freezing point. And I realize you guys at home can't really see too much of what I'm pointing at, so I'll use the cursor, now, to do that. But what you can see is that actually up, just above the surface here, we have a very warm layer of air. And that's where all of our cloud is, because our green and red lines are touching. So that means we have clouds, we have rain in that area. So we're actually forming raindrops up in the upper atmosphere, while here at the surface, as shown by this, we're actually below freezing. We're about 28 degrees Fahrenheit this morning, when I came in today. And so what's happening is, even though we're freezing here on the surface, it's actually warm in the upper atmosphere, so we're able to form rain. And as it falls, it doesn't have enough time to freeze before hitting the ground. The ground is cold. It's below freezing. That rain-- that warm water, then, hits the ground, and freezes on contact. That's why it's freezing rain, and not something like a sleet or snow, which is gonna fall as an ice chunk itself. So that's why it's so slick out there this morning, 'cause we have this warm rain aloft, coming down, hitting the ground, freezing, and everybody falls on it as they're walking in this morning. So that's why we have the freezing rain out there. That's going end quickly. This afternoon, we're gonna start to warm up. So that ice should be gone by about noon, 1:00 this afternoon. Also, I wanted to give you guys a heads-up for Friday evening. That's when our next system is gonna be coming through. We're watching it right now. So this is snowfall change, as of Saturday morning. As you can see, we have this strong band that's just sitting, just to our south and east, and this is kind of trend that's happening lately, is that in the models, it's trying to push the system to the south and east, to get snowfall. So we might be out of the woods if you are going out Friday night into Saturday. If you're heading up to East Lansing for the basketball game on Saturday, we probably should stay out of the messiest of the snow. Maybe an inch or two of accumulation there. But it looks like we're gonna dodge a bullet here, where you have somewhere up to 15 to 18 inches over closer to Toledo and Cleveland, Ohio. there. So. We might-- we might sneak by. Sadly, the warm temperatures that we're having tomorrow are not gonna stick around, so we're gonna be back down to about 15, 17 degrees on Saturday, so. Get out, enjoy tomorrow while you can, because it's gonna be a short-lived spring. So. As I said, I'm filling in for Perry today. We're gonna start, uh, talking about energy. The energy-- where the energy for our atmosphere comes from, why it's here. And I will admit this presentation goes very deep into some physics. The atmospheric science is all physics-based, and I apologize for that. I'll try to walk you through it as slowly as possible. We also kinda jump around a little bit in this one, uh, to different subjects. So, the transitions might seem a little rough in this presentation. So I-- I apologize off the start of it. So if you do have any questions, feel free to ask 'em, either through our system, or again, raise your hand and I will be happy to answer 'em in class. So. But, to start with, I believe this is open, so go ahead and answer where you-- so we'll see how many people decided to stay home today, due to the slick conditions out there. And it looks like a significant number of people are staying-- from home. So. That is not surprising, as this number typically increases as the semester goes on. So, just going back a little bit for what Perry was talking about last time, with the structure of the atmosphere. So it kind of ended quickly last time, so we just wanted really quick go over different layers. So we talked about thermosphere and mesosphere. Again, not a whole lot of exciting things happen in mesosphere or thermosphere that we care about. At least here, as atmospheric scientists. So we're gonna ignore those. Stratosphere, though, does have some interesting things. Again, this is where the ozone layer lives. That's protecting a lot of the surface from harmful energy from the sun. It's blocking allowt-- a lot of the UV radiation that's coming from the sun, so it keeps us a lot safer here, so we're not getting a lot of sunburn on the surface. Again, that's all due to the ozone layer. But what we really wanna start talking about is the troposphere. This is basically the layer really close to the ground. We're talking about 10 kilometers from the surface, up in the atmosphere, that is impacted by the surface itself. And this is where all weather lives. So this is where all of us weather nerds and meteorologists like to look at, is air here in the troposphere. Again, troposphere is layer in contact with the Ear-- surface of the Earth. And hence, the temperature structure of it is directly impacted by energy transfer from the surface to the atmosphere, and we'll talk a lot about this transfer of energy later on today. So. As I said, all of our energy is caused by the sun. This is just a video of the sun. We don't need to play it. It's not that exciting. But most of the energy in the atmosphere is coming from the sun. Most. That's our-- it's our big chunk of energy into our system, so it's important to understand how that energy is coming from the sun, getting to the Earth, and then distributed around. Because that is gonna be the major impact and major player for what happens in the weather and the atmosphere. And just a little hint, guys: the Earth likes to be in balance. And when it's out of balance, that's usually when weather starts to occur. That's when it's out of balance of that energy, and that energy distribution-- it's trying to move that energy around to get it back into some sort of equilibrium. And it's those processes that are weather. That we're gonna be talking about. So. It's important to understand how that energy is disputed. So. First thing we wanna talk about today-- again, this is a little bit of our jumping around, but different scales of temperature. So temperature is just a measure of energy. It's just telling you, basically, how much energy is in these molecules in the atmosphere. Typically, we talk about temperature of the air, or temperature of a liquid. Basically, we're trying to measure how much energy is in that system. And so we use about three different scales here. This is jumping you guys way back to early high school, I realize, but you have your Fahrenheit system here. Your second line here is your Celsius, and your third line is Kelvin. And knowing the difference-- and this is gonna annoy me, but there shouldn't be a 'degrees Kelvin' here; it's just straight 'Kelvin,' but that's a nit-picky issue for another time. But knowing what units these are, are important for some of the equations that we're gonna be talking about later. I will say most of our equations are gonna be living here, in the Kelvin region. A couple of 'em do play around with Celsius, but most we're gonna be dealing with are in Kelvin. Um, so, again, remember these equations. I won't say you won't be asked them again-- hint hint-- but you-- with Google and whatnot-- hint hint-- you can figure it out fairly easily. So that's gonna lead us to our first question today. Assume it's 77 degrees Fahrenheit outside. Express that as Kelvin. And hopefully that is smooth. Like I said, this is a fairly simple one. If again, you know Google. Okay. So we got a lot coming in, but we will take a look at some of these right now. Okay. Uh, 350 in Kelvin would be very hot. Um, I'm seeing a lot in Fahrenheit and Celsius; 298 is the correct answer here. That is, again, Fahrenheit to Kelvin. I will say you should know those equations, but if you just type 'conversion of 77 F to K' into a Google search bar, it will come up with 298.15 Kelvin. But, ok. So again, temperature is a measure of how much energy there is. Now we wanna start talking about how that energy is admitted, from objects. So. We have something in physics that we like to call a 'blackbody.' Now, blackbody don't actually exist. There're things that're very close to a blackbody in nature, but that don't really fully exist. But it's-- it's a hypothetical object that is capable of absorbing all radiation that is impacting it. So all energy that hits a blackbody object is absorbed, and will then change, sort of, the temperature of that body. And the reason why we talk about blackbodies is because it simplifies a lot of the equations-- of radio transfer, which is great for you guys, that we don't have to get into these really nit-picky details here. So, blackbodies are great. They basically absorb everything and emit everything that comes into it. So again, we're talking about energy. Now we wanna say, 'Okay, we have this blackbody. It's absorbing all this energy that's hitting it from the sun, from other objects emitting radiation. How much total energy does this blackbody have?' And so, that brings us to the first law-- hint hint, this is an important law. The Stefan-Boltzmann law. It's the amount of energy a blackbody can emit, as dictated by the temperature, raised to the fourth. So you have, basically, 'e' here being the total amount of energy is equal to some constant, 'k'-- this is a Stefan-Boltzmann constant-- times temperature, raised to the fourth power. So as you can see, for a blackbody, the temperature of that object is going to dictate how much energy it's radiating. So if you increase something by about two there, to temperature, you're gonna be increasing it by two to the fourth power. So the energy of an object quickly increases with an increasing temperature. So that's gonna bring us to our next question here, and this-- I will give you a hint. This is sort of the question that Perry likes to ask a lot during this class, especially on exams. It's basically taking some knowledge of something that you have already, and having you apply it to something that you've not seen before, or something maybe outside of atmospheric science. So. The question here is: as energy emitted is proportional to temperature, raised to the fourth power, what part of the human body probably emits the most energy per square inch? Or, excuse me. Square centimeter. So go ahead and take a couple minutes. Why don't we go ahead and discuss it with people next to you, if you want. And, give an answer of what you think is the part of the body that is emitting the most energy per square centimeter, and why do you think that's the case? I will go back. Okay. So, it looks like we have almost everybody submitted. Should still be able to submit after I click this button, I hope. If not, I apologize. Okay. So, the first two up here, we have 'heart' and 'head.' So, one of those is actually part of the correct answer. There's actually a third answer down here that is also correct. But. So, it's basically your core, is the answer here. The core of your body, since that is where a lot of your organs are. That's where a lot of your blood is living. That is typically the warmest part of you, is the core of your body. The head is the interesting one, because that is growing up. Our moms have already told-- always told us that you should put on a hat as you go outside, 'cause all your heat is lost through your head. That is sort of true. I'm gonna say 'sort of' because where that study actually came from was about the 1950s, they were doing research on cold weather gear for the military. And they discovered that most of the heat is lost through the head after you have on your coat, your jacket, your work-- your pants, all that stuff. So that's where the idea of 'your heat is lost through your head' comes from. It's not actually true. Most of it comes from the core of your body, but as most of us are not running outside doing a polar plunge in winter, most of your heat is gonna be lost through your head in those cases. So. So that's where-- that's where the idea of the head comes from. But it's really more the core of your body, in this case. So that is sort of the 1950s-- sort of-- misinformation of science, in this case. So. Okay. So now. We've got temperature. We have energy being emitted from a body. And we now know that, you know, as the temperature increases, so is the amount of energy from that object. But what is also important to know is that as that energy is increasing, and as that temperature increases, so does the wavelength of that energy being admitted. So, as you might know, all energy's emitted sort of in a wave, or photon. This is going very deep into physics that I don't wanna get into right now. But. Basically, the big takeaway from this graph here, or this figure, is that as your energy begins to increase, the wavelength of the energy emitted decreases. So, for example, as we take, sort of-- and I'll point out this is made in 2001, so they do still talk about AM radio waves. This-- this quickly became an antique of this figure. But. Anyway. So. The wavelength, here, as you increase in energy, begins to decrease. So the more energy you have, the very small wavelength you have, until you start getting up here into ultraviolet waves and x-rays, which have a lot of energy to them, and very, very small wavelengths associated with them. So. That brings us to our next law, then. Hint, hint: this is another important one. Wien's law, which is basically stating that the max wavelength an object can emit is inversely proportional to the temperature. So here, lambda max. Basically, this is our wavelength here. The max wavelength an object is emitting. It's emitting, typically, a range of wavelengths, but the max wavelength is gonna be inversely proportional to a constant here, divided by a temperature. And this constant, we're gonna say, is about 3000. And this is gonna annoy me as well, but Perry did not put the units on this. This is in wavelength, of micrometers per Kelvin. Or, excuse me. Kelvin per micrometer. So. No. Micrometer per Kelvin. I can do-- I can do basic math this morning, guys. Trust me. Okay. So this is gonna bring us to our next question, is: suppose you have an average temperature of the Earth of 27 degrees Celsius. What is the wavelength, in micrometers, at which the Earth emits the maximum radiation? So again, if you go back to wavelength here, and Wien's law, you have 3000 divided by temperature. Hint: that temperature is in Kelvin. Not Celsius, in Kelvin. So you're gonna need to do a math conversion here to get the max wavelength of the Earth. So I'll give you guys a couple minutes to quickly run through that calculation. Yes, sir. I'm assuming so. If there's-- if there're any complex equations, then yes, calculators will be involved, but. Usually-- at least when I wrote the exams, there weren't complex equations that bad, so. Okay. Looks like we have a critical number of answers here. So '2000' micrometers. We have 'one.' We have-- '10' seems to be a very popular answer here. Um, and the correct answer is '10.' So what it is, is if we go back to our equation here. Remember this is in-- micrometers times Kelvin is our 3000 here, and your conversion from 27 degrees Celsius to Kelvin is about 300 Kelvin. So 3000 divided by 300 gives you a wavelength of about 10 micrometers, in this case. Which, if we go back here-- nope, I don't want that one. Okay. We'll talk about that in a second. But. So now, what we wanna start discussing-- and let me remind myself of my slides here-- yep. Is basically the wavelength of different objects-- again, is proportional, or the max wavelength emitted is proportional to the temperature. I will say that about six more times during this session, so it's in your head for the exam. But basically, the wavelength is-- again, max wavelength is inversely proportional to the temperature. So, here on Earth, we've already said that we have about a 10-micrometer wavelength that we're emitted. Now, if we compare that to the sun, which the temperature of the sun is about 6000 Kelvin. That's gonna give us a wavelength for-- max wavelength for a sun of about 0.5 micrometers. Which is great for the Earth, because on this graph here, we have-- here, on the bottom, here-- we have wavelength in micrometers. And then we have emis-- amount of radiation in the vertical here. But-- so, for the Earth, we're down here, at about 10 micrometers. We're gonna call that 'infrared radiation.' You've probably heard that term before. That is fairly long wavelengths here, is gonna be down in the IR section, there, at 10-- at 10 micrometers. Over here, though, in the 0.5 wavelength of micrometers, we are right in the middle of visible light. Which is great. We want that here on Earth, so we can see things. Um, and that's where the sun is predominantly emitting its wavelength, there, is in the visible light region. Now, it's still emitting energy at all these other wavelengths. It's still emitting some energy at-- near infrared. It's still emitting energy at the ultraviolet. But its peak energy and mission is right around that visible wavelength. So that gives us visible light that we can, then, see. So here, this is just a better, sort of, depiction, showing you the total amount of energy here on the 'y,' and wavelength here. And basically, again, as we said, that 0.5 region right here is right in the middle of the visible wavelength for the sun. But here, over on the Earth, we're emitting in the longwave radiation spectrum. So, it's a much longer wavelength, much lower energy in that case. So again, here is just another depiction. There is our longwave radiation emitting in a-- sort of a Gaussian distribution, here. A normal distribution. There's our visible ultraviolet and infrared. Again, I said we're jumping around. We're doing a lot of jumping here, but. Um, again. So, here, if we were to warm an object. So let's say we took our Earth, and it's emitting here in our infrared radiation. And we start to warm that Earth. Now we're gonna start to change where that max radiation is occurring. And now you start to shift that max radiation closer and closer to that visible. Now, it's gonna take a lot of energy to get it there. You're talking going from 300 Kelvin to 6000 Kelvin to get into the visible wavelength, so that is pretty unrealistic. But that's just sort of the idea of what's occurring, if you were to change the temperature of an object. So. This brings up to another question of: describe how the Earth would be different if we now cooled the sun to 3000 Kelvin. So, start talking about what the wavelength would be like. And what would that mean for us here on Earth, in sort of a living style, for what we like to do on a day-to-day basis. And again, this is the type of question that Perry loves to ask, especially on exams. So taking basic knowledge that you know, apply it to a new situation, and tell me what you've learned about that new situation, so. Okay. So it looks like we have-- most everybody's submitted so far, so we'll take a look at some of the answers. Um, 'Earth would be cooler, 'cause there'd be less heat to distribute on the Earth's surface.' Um, that's true. There would be less energy. Earth would be colder. Maximum radiation would be smaller. Yeah. So, a lot of you seem to get it. Basically, the Earth would be cooler then. But also the problem is, now we're not emitting so much in the visible wavelength. So if we go back here, and we look at some of these graphs, basically think of this as if we were to cool it-- typically your distribution is here, and now you begin to cool that sun over there. Now your peak radiation is in the infrared region. Which means there's less visible light. So, what we're seeing on the Earth would be significantly different. You're still getting a little bit in the visible light here, but now you're talking-- the things are gonna look a lot more red out there. You're gonna lose a lot of, sort of, your other colors there, to be able to see. Okay. So now. Again. We've talked about how the sun is emitting energy, and what that mean-- the temperature of that object means for the sun itself. Now, we need to get that energy to the Earth. So, here we're talking about, at the top, that is sort of the total amount of energy if the Earth was a disk. So if you wanna be a 'flat Earth-er,' and we wanna talk about how much energy is on the s-- on the Earth, you're talking about 1368 watts per meter squared, coming from the Sun at our distance from the Earth, distributed over a disc. A flat disk. But, we don't live on a flat disc. We live on a rotating sphere, which means now, you're gonna start changing that distribution of that energy. So, I like to do this little experiment here, and you guys can all do this on your phones too, by using a flashlight feature. Is if you're to hold it up to your hand, and you lay it flat, you see it's a certain intensity. You're emitting a certain amount of light. And it's gonna be a certain intensity. If you start to rotate your hand out, and sort of give that incident of energy a different surface to look at, now it's gonna start to become dimmer. So if you were to go home tonight, a great Wednesday night experiment, as you're hanging out-- I don't know; that seems lame, but, you know. Do what you need to do. Um, as you start to rotate your hand away, you notice it becomes dimmer. It becomes slightly dark. That's because what you're doing is you're changing the amount of energy per area. So you're changing how you're distributing this fixed amount of energy over an object. So that's what's happening here on the Earth. We are not a disc. We're actually a rotating sphere, so we have sort of this distinct distribution. So, here along the Equator, you have a much more direct line of sight. So your energy is much more head-on there, so it's gonna be much more powerful. That's why things near the Equator and the tropics are a lot warmer than maybe, say, something up here in Ann Arbor, or the North Pole, where your energy is now sort of glancing at the surface, and being distributed over a much larger area, up there. So. So what this means is basically, now we have not a uniform distribution of energy, but now we have sort of a different distribution, where you have much more energy here at the Equator than you do at the poles. Like I said earlier, the Earth does not like to be out of balance. It wants to balance that energy out. And to do that, there are about five different ways it has to, sort of, move energy around, so it can try to get this distribution of energy consistent, from the Equator to the North Pole. And those five things are-- and hint, hint: this one's important too. Radiation, which we've already talked about a lot. Uh, the sun is radiation energy, there. Uh, conduction, convection, advection, and latent heat. And we're gonna cover just a couple of these real quick, today. So, conduction. Basically, a way to transfer energy between two objects that are touching each other. So a physical connection between two objects. And what this is doing is basically transferring energy from the warmer body to the colder body, through direct contact with each other. Basically, the warmer body has very fast-moving molecules in it that're gonna come in contact with those colder, slower-moving molecules, and transfer some energy that way. So, big thing with conduction is its direct contact between two objects. Where you have-- now, convection and advection. This is sort of the movement of air, due to, sort of, instability. So, in meteorology, we typically talk about convection as moving air in the vertical column. So it's moving air from the surface up in the atmosphere. And this is usually from warming of the surface itself through solar energy; taking that air near the ground and moving it vertically. This is gonna come-- become very important when we start talking about thunderstorms, and other severe weather, because that's where, basically, thunderstorms come from, is convection, where you're moving air from the surface up in the atmosphere. Advection is the transfer of energy, sort of, horizontally of an object. So it's taking a warm air mass-- sort of, say, maybe over Florida, and moving it up to Michigan to deposit some of its energy up here. So, again. Convection: vertical. Advection: horizontal movement, here. And so also, we have latent heat. Now, latent heat is a fun one, because it's basically the release of energy from transition of phases of water. So, typically, when you talk about evaporation of water, you need to add some sort of energy to that water surface at the ground. It's going to evaporate and move that water vapor into the atmosphere. But then, when that water vapor gets in the atmosphere, it can condense. And when water vapor condenses, it has to release that energy, to transition phases from a vapor to a liquid. So that's what we're showing here, is basically when you go from water vapor, and condensing it, to water itself, it's releasing an energy on the scale of two-- 600 Kelvins per gram. Don't worry about those units. Those are strange units. But basically, again. To transition water-- from water vapor to water, you're gonna be releasing energy, in that way. Same if you go from water to ice, as well. And the same-- or it's actually in reverse, if you go from water to water vapor again. You need energy to transition between these phases of matter, so. That is latent heat-- is basically the release of energy through a phase transition of water in the atmosphere. Okay. So again, I said we're jumping around. A lot. But. Those are-- those are sort of the basics of moving energy around the Earth's surface. We'll touch a lot more on those later on this semester, but. Now we wanna start talking about-- okay. We have the sun. It's emitting energy at 6000 Kelvin. We have it in the visible wavelength, which is great. What is that going to mean for the energy on the Earth? Where does it go? How's it distributed across the Earth? And so the path here, or what we're gonna show in this next figure, is where that energy-- we're gonna say we have 100 units from the sun. Hundred units of energy from the sun. We now wanna divide that into-- sort of-- bins, and where that goes in the atmosphere. So. Here we go. We start down, and we're gonna follow the journey here of that 100 units. And the first thing it's gonna do is it's actually going to deposit about 19 of those units into the atmosphere. So the atmosphere is only gonna absorb about 19 percent of the incoming solar radiation. So it's a fairly small amount of that-- is actually being absorbed by the air itself. A small portion of that is actually reflected back into space, due to the atmosphere itself. The sunlight comes in, hits the atmosphere, and shoots right back out. Clouds also play a significant role here, with this, and can reflect sunlight. So, a portion of that-- if you have cloud cover, like we do outside right now-- sunlight comes in, hits a cloud, goes back out into space. So it's not actually being deposited into the Earth's system. And then, another fraction of that is going to, finally, make its way all the way down to the surface, after trying to get away from being absorbed in the atmosphere, and being reflected by clouds. It's gonna hit the surface. It's gonna be reflected straight back out into the atmos-- uh, out into space. This process is typically called the 'albedo' of the surface. It's basically how much of that solar energy is being reflected back out into space. And that is proportional to the sort of ground cover that you have. Such as a water surface-- it's very reflective, whereas something like concrete is very absorbent. So, that's why it gets typically warmer over concrete than, say, the beach in the summertime. Because it's much more absorbent of energy. So finally, after all of that has occurred, you have about 51 units of that energy actually reach the ground. So only about 51 percent of the sunlight that makes it to the Earth is actually going to hit the ground, and be absorbed there. Everything else is gonna be left out into space, or in the atmosphere. So you have about a total of about 70 units, total, of the sunlight is now in the Earth system. It's now-- we can now play with this energy, and do work with it. So that's-- that's the sun itself. The sun is emitting energy. But remember, here on Earth, we have temperature. Everything that has a temperature is emitting energy. So the surface of the Earth has a temperature, so that's emitting in the longwave radiation spectrum. So that energy can also be used to do work, and to do other things. So, here on the left, we're just gonna keep up these-- what's coming in from the sunlight, but now we wanna start talking about where that energy is going from the Earth itself. So, first off, you have that 51 down here deposited in the Earth. Seven of that energy that we have available, right at the surface, is gonna be lost due to convection. Basically, it's going to heat this layer of the atmosphere, very close to the surface itself. And it's gonna move that energy into the vertical. And it's gonna move it away from the surface, so now we've deposited seven units of energy into the atmosphere itself. We've taken away from the surface, due to both conduction and convection, and now moved it into the atmosphere. So we've now lost seven units here, at the Earth's surface. Next, remember that latent heat release. Where we're taking water, we're heating it up, and we're moving it into the atmosphere through gas. Well, 23 of that sunlight that we use is gonna heat up that water, and move it into the atmosphere. So now you're taking water away from the surface, moving it in there, and now it can condense in the atmosphere, and release latent heat. So now you have 23, in the atmosphere itself. Okay. So now, remember we're here on the Earth's surface. We're emitting energy, because we have a temperature ourselves. So now, this is gonna be our infrared radiation. So we're gonna lose 117 units here at the surface. Now, some of that is gonna be deposited here, in the atmosphere. About 111 units of it. And about six or seven of that is actually gonna make it out into space. So ev-- a lot of what we're releasing here, at the surface, is actually making it into the atmosphere, and being absorbed there, to heat it. And finally, remember that-- since, again, everything has a temperature. Pretty much everything has a temperature. So it's releasing energy. Even the atmosphere itself has a temperature, and it's releasing energy in the infrared radiation. So since our atmosphere has a temperature, it's gonna release some of its own energy out to space. About 64 units of it. Pretty much, a lot of that coming from what it absorbed here from the surface. But we're also going to be releasing 96 down to the surface, because we are not discriminatory in which way we release energy. So, a portion of that energy that the atmosphere has is gonna go out, into space, be lost forever. And 96 of that is gonna come back down. And this 96 is where greenhouse gases come in. Those greenhouse gases like to absorb infrared radiation, and then re-admit it, back either into the atmosphere, into space, or back down to surface. So this is where the greenhouse effect comes in, where we're admitting energy here at the surface. It's going into the atmosphere, being absorbed by greenhouse gases, and then re-admitted back down to the surface. And so, that's it. That is basically all the energy we have to play with. And to do things with. And so, if we look here at the final slide, this is how the energy is distributed. So you have-- again, over here, you have shortwave radiation coming in, being absorbed by the surface, and then longwave radiation is, then, distributing that energy back out. And if you were to go through and do some quick calculations here-- and I will say right now, this should be a 'plus' down here, since that's being gained by the surface there. If you're to add all those numbers up, you get 'zero.' Basically meaning, we are in-- in this ideal, very nice situation, you would be in balance. The amount of energy that's coming into the surface is the same that's being released to the atmosphere, and to space. So you'd be in perfect balance. Now what we're gonna be talking about over the rest of the semester is what happens when, basically, the system gets out of balance. So, you know, for example, maybe you have a very clear day. So you-- you don't have any energy being lost to the clouds there. That means you're gonna have more radiation coming into the surface here. Now you're not in balance anymore. Now you have more energy in than you have energy going out. So something needs to happen to get rid of all this extra energy at the surface. And that's where weather comes in, to move that away. Um, and something else to keep in mind is that this is great during the day. At night, you start to lose-- again, you don't have that solar radiation coming in. So you don't have the shortwave energy coming in anymore to heat the surface. So now your only source of energy is in the infrared, here. That infrared energy gained from the atmosphere itself. And this is where the concerns about global warming come into play. Is if you start to increase that value there, overnight, your temperature is probably going to increase, because now, instead of having this 96 coming into the surface, you may now have 100 coming into the surface, and warming it up. Instead of that 96. So now, you're starting to warm your overnight temperatures there. And that's one of the major concerns about climate change, is warming overnight lows. So that is it for today. If you have any questions, I'll be happy to answer them after class. But, I think Perry's back on Friday. If not, he's here on Monday. So. Have a great week, guys.