Morning. Let's talk a little-- whoops. Am I loud today... Let's talk a little bit about the upper atmosphere. We've talked about how tornadoes are, at least in part, influenced by what's happening upstairs. This is a map of what's going on above us at the moment. And this kind of map helps you see, hopefully, aspects of the jet stream, which-- the jet stream is right over us at the moment. Purple colors being the strongest wind speeds from the northwest. Now, this sort of pattern where the winds are more or less from west-east, is generally considered to be-- well, it generally doesn't produce much in the way of big st-- of storminess. But if we watch what goes-- happens going forward, we can kind of see these waves in the upper atmosphere. The jet stream moves up through California towards Montana, and then way down south here, almost into Alabama, then back up again. When it gets wavy like this, as you-- as you learned earlier this semester, then we-- we sometimes are looking for storms to happen ahead of this trough and to the east. And that's the key in studying this. And this gets interesting here as we move forward. This waviness becomes particularly strong here. Right there. This would be, uh-- uh, roughly-- roughly a week from today. So sit-- situation like this, there's clearly a lot of mixing going on. Warm air is being transported north. Cold air is being transported south. And again, a really strong jet stream here. I don't know what's gonna happen next Sunday, but this is the sort of situation where there's a very strong wave in the upper atmosphere. With that very strong wave, we often get very strong divergence ahead of the trough here. So-- you know, roughly the Carolinas. And that would be, uh, an indicator of storminess in that area. Understand that this-- the waviness is attached to and feeds back on what's happening at the ground, where low pressure at the ground is going to be causing a temperature contrast, which makes the jet stream strong, et cetera. Alright. So today in class, I thought I would-- you are all so good at-- at offering questions. I thought it would be worthwhile today to go over some of those questions that have been submitted. And I apology-- apologies up front for those of you who didn't think they're actually gonna wind up in public. These are gonna be part of a Coursera course we'll be-- we're recording at the moment for release soon. The course is being created. And then what will happen-- this is kind of sick, like chasing a-- an ambulance. We're just gonna wait, kind of, for the big outbreak to happen. And then we'll release-- we'll release this-- this course. And you'll all be invited to participate if you want. I kind of thought this picture was cute. This is basically a storm-- clearly, a storm chaser with bait. You go-- you go where the cows are. Alright, so I got a bunch of questions here. The-- the first ones I want to go through and I-- you know. I apologize. Clearly when I asked you to do this, give me verbal questions, I wasn't explicit about-- enough with the rules. And so in the future, I will remember to add some extra rules to the, uh, to the request. The first one-- oh here. It's here. Questions of the day. Ya-da-da. So what not to do, when asked to submit a verbal question to your instructor. And write this down for all future classes, so you know what not to do. Number one is: make sure you test the microphone. So it has some-- and I'm not gonna name names here. But here was a-- here was a-- um. I-- I hope the question was good, but we'll never know. So, testing the microphone is good. And, another one is, just, if you're filming yourself, no matter what you're doing, I think: stand still. Otherwise, it is kinda hard to watch. Now again, the question could have been good, but I'm distracted by the walking thing and I get nauseous easy. So, I would argue to not do that. The other thing I would really recommend, however, is that you'd want to attend class. Whoops, and now I gotta check my sound levels here. I'm sorry. Somehow sound is not--  is not coming out. Ee-ee-ee. Let's check the sound levels here. Wi-Fi, headphone. All cover your ears for a second, I'm gonna... That should be-- I don't like Windows computers, so just bear with me here. What? Yep, it works. Alright. There we are. Again. So here's a slideshow... Did-- some point in this semester, we-- was I unclear about the role of the Coriolis force in tornado formation? 'Cause I apologize if I was, but a), can a tornado pa-- across the equator? And then, you know, obvious next question is, 'Why not?' Because? There is no Coriolis force at the equator. So if you-- if you-- you cannot get a tornado at the equator. You cannot get a hurricane at the equator. You cannot get anything spinning at the equator. There is no Coriolis force. The Coriolis force goes from zero at the equator to highest value at the poles. So, as you get away from the equator, then yes, the atmosphere can start spinning. But at the equator, be sure you understand that there can be no spin in the storms. And that was, I thought, a point I--  uh, really, it's worth attending class. Here's another one. Same question. Now hold on a second. The sound levels are troublesome here, but basically, he's asking the same question. Well, the Coriolis force does affect tornadoes. And I'm not sure where along the way you heard that. It was not in my class. Okay, also, it's hugely important that maybe you-- you perk up a bit before you submit a question to your instructor. I love the smile. Yes, get out of bed, son. That's a poor effort. Come on. And, for god's sake, wear clothes. And the whole time, I'm just simply worried about the-- about the camera going-- moving. Alright, so the better quest-- the questions I wanna present to you, the ones that we'll-- some of those we'll be presenting-- are here. And it's a good opportunity for us to review some of the questions we've had. Uh-huh. Alright. Again, I'm gonna have to go change this damn Windows. Oh yeah. Bloo-bloo. The question from Josephine. Alright, that's a reasonable question, which I pose to you. Can tornadoes form without a thunderstorm? Okay, a majority of you are saying, 'Yes.' Yes, in fact, they can form, without a thunderstorm. Let's see if I have a slide for this. Well, I remind you of the recipe for tornadic storms. You have to have convective instability, and you have to have wind shear. The jet stream plays a role, and then there's a trigger that fires it off. So in order to get that sort of rotation in the storm-- to get that much energy to cause an entire atmosphere to start rotating, it's gonna take a lot of convection. Massive amounts of convection. So reality is, is you don't get a thun-- tornado unless you really have a supercell thunderstorm. It just does not happen. You have to have a thunderstorm-- and oh-- and you have to have a mother of thunderstorms to make it happen. This is not just your day-old thunderstorm. That said, there are-- there are examples out there. And again, at the-- let's just take a moment here. There're certainly examples out there. Let's go to YouTu-- my favorite, YouTube. Storms that you might well see. Uh. Bah, bah. Let's find another one. Hm. Here we go. Now, one thing we didn't talk about are waterspouts. Uh, when you see a storm like this and you're out on your boat, you have to make a very important life decision. If it's a waterspout, you can drive your boat through it, and it's way cool. If it's a tornado, not so much. The difference in the two is tremendous. The tornado requires a supercell thunderstorm. There's gonna be lightning, there's going to be rain, potentially hail associated with it. A waterspout just simply requires any old cumulus cloud. A cumulus cloud is a development-- like cumulus congestus we talked about in this class. A large, large cauliflower kind of cloud. And what happens is on the ground, there is going to be a shear, a place where maybe that lake breeze is-- sea breeze is happening. And the winds are moving one direction, one-- one way, another direction another way, and so it's causing, more or less, a horizontal shear there. A vertical shear along this spot. And the convection simply moves over that shear. So you got the storm, small-scale bubbly cloud with some updrafts in it. And the updraft moves over that spot on the ground where there is a shear between maybe the winds moving from the south on one side, and from the north on the other side. And that inherent shear, then, gets caught up in the updraft and-- and can produce a waterspout. Waterspouts are just-- they're pretty to look at, but they really are not going to do you much damage, except for some blowing-- blowing debris. So yeah, you can get-- you can get rotating-- looks like a tornado thing, from a-- less than a thunderstorm, but generally those are not really tornadoes. Those are waterspouts and be damn sure you know which one it is before you drive into it. Benjamin. What do you got? Whoops. Excellent question. Why-- why is hail associated with a tornado? Can you have a tornadic storm without hail? Yes or no? And. The answered-- most people think 'yes.' And the answer's likely 'no.' In order to get a storm large enough to produce a tornado, that storm is gonna be so tall that you got these tremendously strong updrafts. That updraft is gonna be producing precipitation. Another important point, along the same line, is you're never going to get a tornadic storm with-- it doesn't-- raining. It is not raining. There's got to be precipitation involved. It's an important part of the formation of the tornado. You got that tilted updraft. The tilted updraft; rapidly rising air. Air is condensed-- water is condensing into liquid water, is-- water drops are growing in size. They're getting tall-- high enough in the clouds where they-- is ice. The ice becomes supercooled and hits the ice, freezes on contact, creating graupel. The graupel is then-- gets big enough to fall back down, but it collects water on the way. Gets caught in an updraft again, gets carried back up. The grapple keeps growing, falls back down, gets carried back up again. It's gonna take a storm of that magnitude to produce a tornado. So it's almost-- it's unlikely; very unlikely that you're gonna ever have a tornadic storm without hail. And you'll never get a tornadic storm without rain. Just part of the process. That rain, remember, falls to the ground, causes that outflow. The outflow causes the air, then, to rise up even faster in the storm, adding more energy to the storm. So, yeah, you're gonna have to have-- someth-- and that's the danger when we're chasing. Is getting caught in the hails-- part of the storm is clearly dangerous to you and dangerous to your vehicle. And this is just a reminder of the graph I used in class. You've got the updraft. It's at a tilt. Precipitation is falling in this tilted updraft. Falling out, so it's not falling back through the updraft. Some of it gets caught back in the updraft and carried back up again, and recycled, more or less, inside the cloud. That is hail. It's gonna form and fall very close to the updraft. Near the center of the storm is where the hail will be. The wind is from the left here. It's gonna carry the lighter precipitation off, and so some of the rain's gonna be falling out here; sort of the north and east of the storm. Heavy rain there causes the air to flow out and cause-- causes updraft to become stronger still. But the hail shaft is here in the center. In order to get this much rotation in the cloud, it's just gonna take such a strong updraft that you've got to have a tremendously large cloud to make that happen. And the updraft-- outflow here from the downburst. Causes this forward flank. Causes the air to rise up again faster. Causes more precipitation to form. And some of that's going to get recycled as hail and fall here in the center of the cloud. Any questions about this concept? You're gonna have to be able to reproduce this at some future date. You really are. Haley. Alright. Good-- good question. Tornado warning. And tornado watch. It's important that you know the difference, walking out of this course. 'Tornado watch': it means that the conditions that we've talked about are in-- are-- are present. The conditions are: there is convective instability. That there is wind shear. That the jet stream is somewhere above you, causing the strong wind shear. And potentially divergence. And on top of that, there's some trigger. Maybe it's a cold front. Maybe it's a dry line. But there's some trigger. Those are the conditions. A tornado watch is issued reasonably often. It covers a large area. Like, it would cover, ghh-- all of southeast Michigan would be under a tornado watch. Excuse me. A tornado warning-- if you hear there's a tornado warning, then it's time for you to take some action. And so we're clear about what that action is, I've identified-- tornado warning is gonna be very specific. It's gonna be for the west side of Washtenaw County, or for Dexter, Michigan. It's very specific because they're-- now, we-- now, this doesn't happen unless there's a tornado on the ground. So here's a tornado watch. It's serious stuff. That means some storm spotter somewhere has found it, or radar has indicated that inside that cloud, there is sufficient rotation that is probably dropping a tornado. If you're inside, you move to an interior room of the lowest floor of a sturdy building. So ideally, you go in the basement. In the basement, number two, you stay away from windows. Flying debris is the biggest challenge, uh, with an approaching storm. If you don't have a basement, then you go to the center of the house. If you can, maybe get into a bathtub. Whatever it is, protect yourself from flying debris. That's your whole objective here. Now, down here at the bottom. If you're in a mobile home, get out of it. Go someplace. Somewhere in the vicinity that has a more permanent structure. Uh, never, ever, try to hop in your car to outdrive it. You will lose that battle. Every time. Thomas. Alright. A good question. So, tornado's on the ground; how do we know how to predict where that storm's gonna go? And the other question he asked is, 'Are there things on the ground that could disrupt the tornado?' So, first of all, when the tornado's on the ground, we can have radar. We can see where the rotation is happening, or we have a report from the field. We know-- have a lat-lon, roughly, where that storm is. With radar, we can see which way the storm is moving. We can have the feedback from where is it precipitating, where-- how is the storm moving. Typically, the storm is moving-- let's review. A thunderstorm is a tall beast. It starts somewhere, maybe a few thousand feet above the ground, and heads up-- could be 50,000, up to 70,000 feet tall. You know, five to ten miles. This thing is a massive cloud. So as that thing is moving, it's being driven by the winds in the middle. The average wind for the whole layer. And that middle wind is like 500 millibars, like halfway through the atmosphere. So what is that layer doing? And that's the layer that's gonna move that storm along. We use that information to predict, then, how-- where that storm is going next. And-- and remember that storm is a massive, massive thing. And that tornado is sort of a, you know, the sort of a tail wagon off the thing. So, yeah, we know which way the storm is moving. But what's that tornado gonna do on the ground is really unpredictable. And we've had a few cases. And if you ever want to go-- go look up on YouTube, look up 'El Reno tornado.' A tornado, which was moving along a certain path, and just stopped, and uurt! And went in a different direction, and caused some serious damage. And caught some storm chasers. And, it's just-- they're just unpredictable, what the tornado does once it's on the ground, for the most part. You think you can just follow alongside it. That would be stupid. So, let's look at a few other myths that have to do with tornadic storms. Number one. And you may have heard this. You may have seen this at some point in your life. The green sky. And this picture here shows that green sky. And the myth was, 'Oh my God, if there's a green sky out there, that's-- this is definitely producing a tornado.' Well, not true. If you get the green sky like this, what it probably means is there's hail inside the cloud. And the hail shaft of white-- the white hailstones falling to the ground pick up the colors that-- the light that can pass through this thick cloud, and you wind up with somewhat of a greenish color. Plus what light-- what light that can make it underneath these massive clouds is that light which is reflected off the ground. Which is largely gonna be the trees and such. So you wind up with a greenish hue inside these massive storms. But it doesn't mean, necessarily, there's a tornado in there. It just means that this-- this storm means business. It's big enough the block other light, and probably hailstones inside it. Another myth: seeking shelter under an overpass is a good idea. And I showed you the video of the people under an overpass who survived the storm going right over them. And that film influenced a lot of others to think that if you're out on the highway, you're out on the interstate and the storm is bearing down, and you see the tornado, the safest place to get yourself is under the underpass. For lots of reasons, it turns out, that's not true. Yes, we're gonna turn you down. Here are some people chasing a tornado. It has passed-- the tornado has passed over the highway. Now, there's a lot of debris here. A lot of cars were just flipped underneath here. Notice the underpass has this concrete wall, and then the girders going across. That's gonna funnel the air right through it. The video I showed you before, it was a concrete wall, but then there was a-- a gap underneath the girders that went back underground, sort of. Those people were really lucky to be able to get up in there because that protected them from the extremely high wind speeds. When you have this situation, it's like trying to force the air through a small pipe, and it becomes even faster than underneath the overpass. And the damage-- the damage here is-- is remarkable. Oh, dang it. This is another overpass. Again, there's nowhere to go. Also, if you're thinking about trying to outrun a tornado, hopefully this is evidence that you should not do that. Myth number three: opening the windows is somehow going to relieve the pressure in the house. This goes back a long time. I remember hearing it as a kid myself. That the pressure inside a tornado-- we saw last time, the pressure inside was extremely low. And I-- my car went through that tornado, pressure dropped 14 millibars from outside to inside the tornado. That sort of change in pressure would certainly cause the windows to expand or contract, but opening the windows does little. I mean, the change of pressure is probably enough to really cause the windows to blow on itself. The windows will blow up because of flying debris, so you wanna be nowhere near the window. Leave the windows shut; at least maybe the rain won't come in. It's just a stupid idea to open your windows. So just get away from the windows, get inside the house as far as you possibly can. Here are some friends from Texas Tech University, to illustrate why you don't wanna stand not only near the window, but you probably don't wanna stand near even the outside walls of the house. In Texas Tech, they have a whole facility which does nothing more than tests the durability of a wall to flying debris. So what they do is they create cannons which shoot two by fours into walls, and shoot other objects into walls. You can see the effects here. You might have noticed that was a brick wall. So, a two by four traveling at two hundred miles an hour in a tornado is gonna go right through a brick wall. So you want to be as far away from the outer walls as you possibly can, in order to protect yourself. I think I've told you the story about my own instr-- professor who learned that chickens lose their feathers in tornadoes. And created the-- yeah-- chicken cannon, to try to fire chickens of various speeds to see what point they lost their feathers. Turns out, it wasn't a fact-- function of wind speed; it's simply fear. Chickens molt. They lose-- they just drop their feathers. Somehow fright-- flight or fright-- what is it called? Fright or flight. They just decide to let go. Chill. 'Take shelter in the southwest corner of the building': another myth that you may have heard along the way. Again, the tornadoes are coming from the southwest. There is absolutely no evidence that being in the southwest corner is any safer than being in any other corner of the building. The safest place in the building is in the center, away from the walls. In the center, in a bathtub. The-- in the center, just protecting yourself to what degree you can from the massive flying debris that's going to happen with a tornado. Remember, that if you're in an F1, F2 tornado, you're probably gonna do fine if you're in a brick house. If you're in an F4 or -5, you're not. Your-- your life is in danger. Your house is gone. You just-- don't worry about that. Just get yourself in the center part of the house to be as safe as possible. To illustrate that point, these are well-constructed homes in a neighborhood, I think, in Maryland. And you can see that the well-constructed homes, after the tornado goes through in this cul-de-sac, are pretty much gone. So if you're in this house, if you're in the middle of the house here, you're probably survived. And some things of these other house-- again, that house is almost entirely destroyed up there. If you're in the center, at least, there's a chance that-- that-- a chance that you could be in a space that's safe inside the building, and survive. And likewise, the rest of the houses up there; the roofs-- the top floor, is taken off. The inside of the house, though, is maintained. And so, even in this case of an F4 or F5 tornado, you have some hopes for survival. Tornadoes form only on flat land. There are a lot of myths about this, and you may have heard them yourself that, 'Oh, you know, that's-- those storms never hit Ann Arbor; never hit fill-in-the-blank. They never hit the valleys in the countryside. They never strike in the mountains.' Well, all that's not true. What is true is it's easier for a tornadic storm to form and be maintained in flat terrain. That is true. Because there's less disruption of its flow. The whole storm-- remember, the whole storm is rotating. And that whole storm rotating is causing a wind flow underneath it. That wind flow is being sucked up into the storm, into that tilted updraft. And for that to be maintained, it's really best if there is flat terrain. It's even better if there aren't trees, 'cause the less friction, the more the storm can organize. That's all true. But to say that storms cannot form in areas of terrain, or hilly areas, is false. And this is an illustration of that. This is a tornado that hit Tuscaloosa, Alabama, in a hilly part of Alabama. And it's certainly not impressed by the mountains, or the hills. You have to put in perspective that the part of the tornado that we see is maybe 1000 feet or so. That tornado exists all the way up inside the cloud for-- could be thousands of feet. And so, that-- that long, that rotation, over that depth-- what's happening on the ground is almost irrelevant. Except for the formation and maintenance of the rotation in the cloud. Will, what you got? An excellent question. So if-- so if you're in a tornado-prone area, what could you do in your home, or otherwise, to protect yourself from a tornado? This is remarkable. This-- I found that you can buy this at Home Depot. A tornado shelter, or coffin. This thing is-- I'm not sure how it's secured to the ground, or why this would be protective. It would probably protect you from flying debris, except you just saw the cannon shooting things through brick walls. So, to what degree this would protect you, I'm not sure. It's got a few bolt holes here to hold you down, but those don't look-- don't look anywhere near good enough. I suppose if you bolted yourself down to concrete, that's possible. FEMA actually suggests that-- these units. They're not terribly expensive. And what happens is some people put them underneath their garage, for example. But you dig a hole in the ground, basically, and put this structure underground. And it is what-- a tornado shelter. Underground, you're clearly safe from the flying debris. If your-- building goes over you, you're still safe during that time. Unless you're a-- unless you're the fellow in-- in Twister, and you're the-- the farmer just holds the door open. Uh, try-- sits there with his hand, trying to hold the door shut. That's just stupid. Make sure the latch works. So yeah, there are-- there are ways to design your building to withstand tornadic storms. To a point. In F5 tornado, no, there's not. There is no-- you know, short of going-- having an underground structure, there is no way to protect yourself. So again, our big worry is what's going to happen if a storm hits Chicago. Or if a storm hits Dallas. Because in that case, even the tallest buildings are gonna be severely damaged by the high winds in those tornadoes. Alright, good question. What do you? Current is burnt; you take a picture for God's sake, and send it to me. Then what do you do? You've gotta make that life decision here. You're in your car, the thing is behind you, and you're both traveling the same direction on I-94. Hmm? What do you do? Get into a ditch, get into a culvert. Both are excellent ideas. First, get out of the car. And probably, you want to get away from the car in case the car is going to get rolled over something. Get out of the car, run away from the car. Ditch is a good idea. On the other hand, probably don't want to get into a deep dit-- the only problem with a ditch and a culvert is that these tornadic storms are often, uh, going to have a lot of rain associated. So it's possible the ditch or culvert could fill with water. But if that's your, you know, that-- that's your only choice, then yes, get in the ditch, because if the water starts filling up, you can always inch your way out of it. Just as low to the ground as possible. Remember, the high wind speeds in that tornado are, you know, could be 200 miles an hour or more. And-- but that wind has-- wind speed has to go to zero at the ground. I mean, the ground isn't moving. So the closer you are to the ground, the lower the wind speed will be. Holding on to something on the ground is a wise idea, too, because you remember that is that suction vortice. Wind speed's about 100 miles an hour straight up. You know, just take-- removing things from the surface. So, you know, not the belt around the pipe inside the house with the meat cleavers. But just, you know, hold onto something so to the degree possible, you're not lifted off the ground. That's about all you can do. But try not running-- is wrong. Getting into an overpa-- under an overpass is wrong. If you can get-- if you find a building, get into the building, and get into the center of the house in the building. Get-- go into whatever structures are available. But don't be in your car. So the question is: how does a tornado end? I didn't-- didn't really talk about that. Tornadoes-- I talked about how they formed. What is it-- why do they run out of steam? And what often happens with a tornado to run out of steam is that-- I mean, it's a complex system to make a tornado. They have to have the tilted updraft, and the rain falling, and the outflow, and the updraft, and then-- and then the rotation inside the-- inside the cloud. And-- and there's just so many things that can make it fall apart. I mean, there's so few tornadoes, really, given all the thunderstorms we have, that to make a tornado is of unique, special case. So it's just, any one of those things could stop. If the inflow is cut off, often because another storm forms to the south of the original storm and starts cut-- sucking up all the moisture, which cuts off the inflow of the big-- the storm with the tornado. That can happen. Or the flow along the ins-- un-- under the ground, there, maybe becomes-- there was some-- something upsets the rotation inside the cloud. And one of the big things that-- sometimes that rain that's falling, usually away from the updraft, gets drawn back and around the tornado. And having to carry all that rain as well as the-- it simply bogs the tornado down. It knocks apart the rotation inside the tornado. Rain can wrap around, and to a point, that kind of the storm gets waterlogged and dies out. You'll know a tornado's in its final steps because it starts to take on a rope shape, where the rope is not straight, but in fact, has some bends in it. That's a tornado that's on its last legs. I got a lot of questions like this, and those are excellent questions. So, we have to talk about climate change and its impact on tornadoes. You have to go back to our list, and you have to ask the question, 'Which of these, if any, might be affected by climate change?' So, do you expect, number one, the convective instability to get worse as the planet warms? And, you're gonna have to understand what causes convective instability now. Think about why it could get worse or not get worse. Or get-- get less worse. Is it gonna get worse? And why-- why do you think so, or not? Okay, many of you think it's gonna get worse. Let's see-- let's see why people don't think it's gonna get worse. Convective instability occurs where there is a contrast to the air on the surface. As the earth gets warmer, there'll be less contrast. Remember that convective instability is where you have moisture in a layer near the ground. Warm, moist air near the ground; cold, dry air above it. So it-- is that going to change over time? Let's see what the 'yes' people say. Because of temperature-- wha? Convective instability will stay the same. I did not-- I didn't-- temperature increase in the extremes of weather across the planet did-- what? Maybe. 'Cause temperature and pressure gradient. I don't know what you're talking about. So, think about it. Convective instability requires a), warm, moist air near the ground. Is that gonna-- is air gonna get warmer and moisture near the ground? Yeah, it is. Is the air aloft gonna get colder, drier? I dunno. The fact it's gonna get warmer and moister near the ground does suggest there could be a potential, then, for greater convectively available potential energy. 'CAPE.' So yes, it's possible that in a warming climate, more moisture would be coming out of the Gulf of Mexico, making that layer moister near the ground. It could potentially have more 'CAPE.' You could have more convective instability. And that's the answer I'd be looking for if we ask that again sometime soon. Next. Another factor was the jet stream. Wind shear. Do you expect the jet stream to be affected, to get stronger? In a warmer climate. Alright. Again, you're thinking, 'Yes.' Why do you think 'yes'? Hmm? Oh, I forgot to click the button, didn't I? Alright. I would argue 'no.' Jet stream. What causes the jet stream? The polar jet stream is a function of how temperature changes from south to north. Now, what we're going through right now is that the Arctic is warming up faster than we are here in the States. The Arctic is melting. Therefore, the temperatures are warmer up there. Therefore, there is a less of a temperature gradient in the future, between the polar regions and the temperate regions. Given a lower temperature gradient, that would potentially mean that the wind speeds and the jet stream might be reduced in the future. Not increased. It also means the jet stream, on the other hand, is going to be less predictable. It's gonna have more of these oscillations, potentially, than we have now. We really don't know yet. So at this point, we'd-- if I was guessing, I would say probably not. The jet stream probably is not gonna get stronger. But to answer the big question here, 'Will tornadoes-- eh, maybe more likely or stronger in the future?', our models, the computer models-- and please understand these climate models are not on a scale to be able to identify a tornado. All they can do is identify potential convection. And the strength of that convection. And what the models suggest, is that, yeah, that convective instability might be a little bit stronger, but not enough to really cause more convective storms. But oddly enough are-- these computer models suggest that that-- the wind shear near the ground is actually gonna get stronger. Because the wind's in one direction, moving-- the winds over it moving in a different direction. That reason-- for that could get much stronger. And that means that that potential 'helicity,' they call it, the rotation between the two layers, gets picked up more vertically. The seeds, then, for the tornado could be more-- more likely in the future. So on the whole. we don't know. We have no idea whether storms are gonna get stronger-- these kinds of tornadic storms will get stronger in the future. There is the obvious-- obvious potential there for more convection. And what our models do suggest is that when we get convection, it's gonna be stronger convection. It's just gonna be less of it. That there won't necessarily be more tornadoes, but when they do happen, they could get stronger. That's our current understanding. Alexa, what do you got? And as we just said, I-- we don't know. You know, by giving you my logic for why we-- it could well be that tornadoes in the future will at least be stronger. And we can see potentially a trend in the F4, F5 tornadoes, but not necessarily in all tornadoes. Uh, Natalie. Oh yes, geoengineering. I probably don't have time to get in that today. Geoengineering. You're gonna leave with us, the engineers, to figure out how to fix this thing? You're-- you're-- made a huge mistake. Um, this is the last day I am lecturing. On Wednesday, Yi-Hsuan-- Yi-Hsuan will be here to offer review session. And your exam is on Friday. I want to thank you for a good semester, and I want to thank Yi-Hsuan for everything he's done for us. So give it up for Yi-Hsuan here. Alright. If you have questions for me, I'm gonna be on email. I'll be in Boulder the rest of the week, but I'll be on email. Good luck on the exam on Friday.