Movesci 230 Human Musculoskeletal Anatomy

Muscle Action
1

After completing this lecture, you will be able to:
Describe the steps needed to determine muscle action Identify the muscle group acting to control a movement
Determine if muscle action is concentric, eccentric or isometric during a movement
2

Body movement depends on the balance of all forces and torques acting on the body
What forces act on the body?
Muscle force + gravity force + other external forces
What is the effect of these forces at joints?
Forces create torques at joints
Muscle torque + gravity torque + other external torques
Torques create angular acceleration at joints
What joint movements result from these torques?
Acceleration direction depends on sum of torques - ΣΤ = Ια
If muscle torque > other torques then acceleration is in direction of muscle torque
If muscle torque < other torques then acceleration is in direction opposite to muscle torque!


3

Concentric action
Muscle torque > other torques so net joint angular acceleration is in the same direction of muscle torque

Muscle action indicates whether muscle torque is in the same or opposite direction as the movement.
Eccentric action
Muscle torque < other torques so net joint angular acceleration is in the opposite direction of muscle torque

Isometric action
Muscle torque = other torques so net joint angular acceleration is zero and no movement occurs


Steps to determine muscle action during movement:
Name the joint movement
Identify the direction of the external load torque
Same as the direction of movement caused by gravity
Determine the muscle torque that is needed to counteract the external load torque (gravity)
Muscle torque is opposite to gravitational torque
Compare direction of muscle torque and movement
If they are the same direction, then action is concentric
If they are in opposite directions, then action is eccentric
5

What knee muscle action is needed to stand up?

Step 1 - Name the movement at the knee. 
The knee movement is extension.
7

During knee extension, knee extensors shorten and knee flexors lengthen.
8

Step 2 - Identify the direction of the external load torque.
The external load torque (gravity) exerts flexor torque at the knee.

When standing up, gravity exerts a torque that tends to flex the knee. Although many external forces can act on the body, gravity is the only external force that we will consider in this class.
10

Step 3 - Determine the muscle torque that is needed to counteract the external load torque (gravity).
The muscle torque is opposite to gravity torque.

Muscles control movement by counteracting external torques. Muscle torque is usually opposite to gravity torque direction.
12

Extensor muscle torque can only be generated by extensor muscles.
To generate the knee extensor, the nervous system activates the knee extensor muscles.

The knee extensor muscles are active and shortening during knee extension, so the muscle action is concentric.
14

Step 4 - Compare direction of muscle torque and movement.
If muscle torque and movement are in the same direction, muscle action is concentric. If muscle torque and movement are in the opposite direction, muscle action is eccentric.

When muscle torque and movement are in the same direction, the muscle action is concentric. The muscles are acting opposite to gravity.
16

The movement that we observe depends on the balance of muscle and external load torques.
When muscle > gravity torque then movement is in the direction of muscle torque and muscle action is concentric. Movement is “against” gravity.
When muscle < gravity torque then movement is in direction of gravity torque and muscle action is eccentric. Movement is “with” gravity but slower.
Muscle
Gravity
Movement
Muscle
Gravity
Movement
17

What movement results when muscle torque and gravity torque are balanced?
Elbow
Muscle
Gravity
?
When muscle = gravity torque then no movement occurs and the muscle action is isometric.
18

With eccentric muscle action, gravity is “causing” the movement, so why does the brain activate muscles at all?
Elbow
Muscle
Gravity
Eccentric muscle action counteracts gravity and makes movements slower and more controlled than if gravity acted alone.
Movement
19

Do muscles and gravity ever act in the same direction?
Elbow
Muscle
Gravity
Yes! In this case muscle torque adds to the gravitational torque and the resultant movement is faster and more than if gravity acted alone.
Movement
20

In movements that are in the same direction as gravity torque, why are muscles activated? 
Elbow
Muscle
Gravity
Eccentric muscle action is needed to counteract gravity and make movements slow and controlled. 
Movement
21

What is knee muscle action when sitting down?

What is the direction of movement at the knee?

What is the direction of gravity torque at the knee?

What is the direction of knee muscle torque?

What is the knee muscle action during sitting down?

What is the elbow muscle action when moving from position 1 to position 2?
1
2
27

3
4
What is the elbow muscle action when moving from position 3 to position 4?
28

What is the shoulder muscle action?
29

What is the muscle action at the scapula?
30

What is the shoulder muscle action in the upper left movement?
31

What is the elbow muscle action in the upper left movement?
32

What is the muscle action at the hip when standing up?
33

What is the knee muscle action in the upper left movement?
34

What is the ankle muscle action in the upper left movement?
35

What is the muscle action at the spine during a sit up?
36

What is the muscle action at the spine?
37

What is the shoulder muscle action in the upper left movement?
38

What is the muscle action at the spine?

What is the muscle action at the spine that is needed to maintain this position?

What muscle action is needed maintain this position?

What muscle action is needed to maintain this hip position? 

Other external load torques act on the body besides gravity. Shoulder muscles must counteract the force of the rope on the body.

This is the end of the 19-Muscle Action module. 
Don’t forget to go to the Practice After Class section of the Module to keep learning!
