Movesci 230 Human Musculoskeletal Anatomy

Axial Skeleton Redux
1

After completing this module, you will be able to:
Describe developmental changes in the skull
Describe sex differences in skull anatomy
Describe normal and abnormal curvatures of the spine
Identify the types of joints found in the axial skeleton
Describe the regional differences in orientation of the facet joints and how that affects spine motion
Name and identify the ligaments of the spine
Explain the anatomy of slipped discs, spinal stenosis, spondylolysis and spondylolisthesis
Describe the respiratory movements of the thorax

Skull
development, sexual dimorphism
Spine
normal and pathological curves
motion segments
ligaments
injuries and pathologies
Thorax
respiratory movements
We will first discuss special features of the skull 
3

Sutures fuse progressively with age up to 20-25 yrs 
The fontanelles are dense fibrous tissue “soft spots”.
Posterior
Fontanelle
(fuses at 2 mos)
Anterior
Fontanelle
(fuses at 2 yrs)
4

The early development of the brain leads to a relatively large cranium and small face in children
5

Male cranium is robust:
Bigger supraorbital ridges
More prominent glabella
Larger mastoid process
Longer mandibular ramus
Due to sexual dimorphism, skull can be used to detemine sex with accuracy as great as 80-90%  
6

Click on the male mastoid process

Sexual dimorphism is a continuum of shape

Race concepts in physical anthropology have gone the way of the dinosaur
The skull is the only part of skeleton widely used in estimating geographic ancestry. 

Racial estimations are more difficult, less precise, and less reliable than estimations of age, sex or height.
9

Skull
development, sexual dimorphism
Spine
normal and pathological curves
motion segments
ligaments
injuries and pathologies
Thorax
respiratory movements
Now we will discuss special features of the spine
10

The cervical and lumbar regions curve opposite to thoracic and sacrococcygeal regions
Cervical 
Concave posteriorly
Lumbar 
Concave posteriorly
Sacrococcygeal Concave anteriorly
Thoracic 
Concave anteriorly
11

Primary curve 
(thoracic)
Primary curve
Secondary curve
(cervical)
Secondary curve 
(lumbar)
Develops with upright posture

Develops with lifting of head

Present at birth
Adult spinal curves form as body posture changes
(sacrococcygeal)
12
Netter FH.  Atlas of Human Anatomy.  Ciba-Geigy, NJ, 1995. Figure 142

Lumbar lordosis, thoracic kyphosis and scoliosis are abnormal curves of the spine
Lordosis
Kyphosis
Scoliosis
13

Kyphosis occurs with aging due to osteoporosis in thoracic vertebral bodies
With aging, osteoporosis weakens spongy bone in vertebral bodies and compression fractures occur in the anterior portion.

Discs lose water and height with age.
“Wedging”
14

Scoliosis is a lateral curve in the spine with a twist
There is no known cause for 80% of cases (idiopathic)
Scoliosis affects about 4-8% of the population
8x more likely to progress to requiring treatment in females
Mild scoliosis is well-tolerated
Severe deviations compromise cardiopulmonary function


The amount of scoliosis curvature is Cobb’s Angle

Scoliosis is treated first with exercise. If not improved, then a brace, and if necessary, surgery
Brace
Harrington Rods
17

There are cartilaginous and synovial joints in the spine
Synovial
Cartilaginous
18

The intervertebral discs between vertebral bodies are fibrocartilage joints (symphyses) 
Annulus fibrosus - fibrous outer rim

Nucleus pulposus - gel-like center (70% water)
Discs permit torsion and compression while absorbing shock.
19

The orientation of fibers in the annulus fibrosus helps to center the nucleus pulposus and resist stretching 
Collagen fibers in the annulus fibrosus are arranged in layers with a different orientation in each layer. 
20

The thickness of intervertebral discs increases from superior to inferior
21
Netter FH.  Atlas of Human Anatomy.  Ciba-Geigy, NJ, 1995. Figure 142

The facet joints are non-axial (gliding) joints 
Direction of motion depends on orientation of facet joints

The synovial joints between articular processes are called facet joints or zygapophyseal joints 
22

The facet joints in the cervical region are oriented on a diagonal which allows for motion in all planes
23
Netter FH.  Atlas of Human Anatomy.  Ciba-Geigy, NJ, 1995. Figure 13b

An exception is the Occ-C1 joint which behaves like a hinge – allows “yes” motion 
24

Another exception is the C1-C2 joint which is a good example of a pivot joint – allows “no” motion
25

Articular facets are almost vertical and face anterior-posterior.
Facet joints in the thoracic region are oriented nearly in the frontal plane which limits flexion/extension
26

Facet joints in the lumbar region are oriented nearly in the sagittal plane which limits rotation
Articular facets are oriented vertically and face medial-lateral
27

A motion segment consists of two vertebrae and disc between them
The direction of motion depends on orientation of the facet joints. 
The amount of motion depends on the disc thickness.
28

This graph shows spine movement in which plane?
29

The amount of spine movement differs by region
30

Posterior ligaments stretch with spine flexion
Anterior ligaments stretch with spine extension
Spine ligaments limit movement when they stretch
31

There are more ligaments on the posterior aspect of the spine than on the anterior aspect
32

Spine ligaments shown with a lateral view
Anterior Longitudinal
Supraspinous
Between tips of spinous processes
Interspinous
Between spinous processes
Ligamentum flavum
Yellow, very elastic
Between adjacent laminae

Posterior Longitudinal
33

Posterior Longitudinal
Ligamentum Flavum
Spine ligaments shown with a “laminectomy”
Posterior view
Anterior view
34

Ligamentum nuchae
Ligamentum nuchae is the special name given to the supraspinous ligament in the cervical region
35

Where is the posterior longitudinal ligament?

Name a ligament that is stretched in this position

A “slipped” disc occurs when the nucleus pulposus herniates posterolaterally
38

With flexion, nucleus pulposus is forced posteriorly and if annulus fibrosus tears, the disc herniates 
Spine flexion with compression
Tension on collagen fibers
Protrusion of nucleus pulposus
39

When the disc protrudes posterolaterally, the spinal nerve roots are pinched causing pain
Posterolateral protrusion
40

Spinal nerve roots can be pinched if the size of the  intervertebral foramen narrows - this is known as spinal stenosis

The vertebral level of injury can be diagnosed by knowing the distribution of nerves exiting the spinal cord 
42

A vertebral fracture between articular processes is called spondylolysis (“scotty dog” fracture)
Fracture of pars interarticularis

Spondylolisthesis is slippage of adjacent vertebral bodies

Young adults, athletes and old adults are most vulnerable to spondylosis and spondylolisthesis
Young adults and athletes are at risk due to hereditary abnormalities or repeated high compressive loading

Older adults are at risk due to degenerative changes to joints 

Skull
development, sexual dimorphism
Spine
normal and pathological curves
motion segments
ligaments
injuries and pathologies
Thorax
respiratory movements
Now we will discuss joints and motions of the thorax
46

Most of the sternocostal joints are synovial

Synovial
47
Netter FH.  Atlas of Human Anatomy.  Ciba-Geigy, NJ, 1995. Figure 171b

The costovertebral joints are synovial
48

During respiration, the thoracic volume increases due in part to movements of the ribs
Thorax volume increases in ant/post and med/lat directions
49

The superior ribs move like a “pump handle”
50

The inferior ribs move like a “bucket handle”
51

“Cervical” ribs can impinge on nerves and vessels to cause poor circulation and nerve pain
Extra ribs can occur in cervical and lumbar regions
52

This is the end of the 4-Axial Skeleton Redux module 
Don’t forget to go to the Practice After Class section of the Module to keep learning!
